One was once, a lot of, a lot of time ago
A war. But it was not the same everlasting war.
It lasted from the night of the times
And nobody remembered his beginning
And nobody knew his reason...
Of two kingdoms that were fighting one against other
none had listened to the word " peace " ever
His meaning had got lost in the battlefields
Two armies kept on facing without truce
Year after year, month after month, day by day.
Not! Piety, piety!
Majesty! The big moment has come
Per today you will save the life, soldier
It thanks my real heir, who is on the verge of being born
Well
All that I will have still for that to wait for my son
And well?
It is only a question of time
It had been a disrespect
to be born before your arrival
How are the predictions?
I want the prayer for the dead of the fortune tellers
Here it has them
What do they predict the stones?
And well?
speak!
What do they say?
Male, majestad
The third son will be a male
The stones never lie.
Moan of you if it is not like that
In this case...
The truth has no price, gentleman.
Let's see the flames.
Well: what do they predict?
Speak! Or I do you...
Not, gentleman, is mute: do not you remember?
The fire has eaten the language.
But the flames had dazzles of male's color.
Do you have doubts? Do you want to see them again?
Not, not
Where are the sacred snakes?
Pay to him.
I love my daughters. I love my daughters now!
At least you are not going to protest.
But how? So little?
A bit more. Not, not not
Come here
Daughters, be always convenient to the will of the gods
and of the men
Not, not, you are not afraid, daughters. Look.
Look at the prodigy.
The response of the snakes is clear, a gentleman.
Finally you will have a worthy heir of you and of your name
Have you heard, Caterina? And you, Carolina?
My wished heir comes to the world.
The será your owner and gentleman.
and you will have to incline humbly before him.
The fact that one day will be able gloriarse of having gained this war
it is on the verge of being born
and you will have...
.. a sister
Who has spoken? Who?
I, gentleman
I her do not see good, give me light
I cannot cheat you
porqué vain would be cualcuier trick
Listen, listen!
She is a girl, gentlem. and you have to want her and raise her
as others.
You, witch Blanca! See to drown you in the river in what you have been born!
dasaparece in the forest where the thunderstorm with his shoots
they give you the voice...
or your perfidious person throws for a steep mount
and finish in the abyss that has germinated your odious calumnies!
Before me ... before...
Gentleman!
Here is my heir to the throne,
with his screams it has decreed your condemnation.
She is a girl...
This is your work!
It is you who has thrown me the malefice.
General!
At your service, majestad!
Arrest her, arrest her!
There makes me sad a king who cannot accept the reality.
But his subjects give more sorrow to me.
To the death, kill her!
Obey the order, kill her!
Bolt the doors! Do her to flee
The cats! The cats!
Bad witch...
What shame: so many people against one...
Give you! Gone!
Slowly, majestad
How is he?
I am afraid that his end has come
And does she know it?
Not, majestad, it is not known anything
You will recover, my darling. And soon also...
My child...
Is it robust and nice as you wanted it?
Do not say anything. The effort tires you
Say to me to whom it looks alike... I have not left a lot of time
Of you it has taken the beauty and the force of me
He is the heir that I have always wished
Certainly your wife has made you happy...
Not... Not... Not!
She! She has killed her!
It will not survive your mother
What wide-awake eyes does it have
It looks what nice is
Yes it is nice, but I was nice. More nice than she
Truth?
Nobody is nice as you
Father: do not take her!
Father, for piety
My sword! We go!
Father, father, for piety. Do not hurt my little sister!
Do not take her. Do not take her far from here, for piety
If my fears are real
the place to where the unlucky person goes is the cave of the Golden rose
That the good gods protect her...
evil demons...
After his mother take you to the daughter
She has not been born for will of the gods
It is a creature of the demon
and that's why I sacrifice it to the Sacred Beast
that resides in this cave
But if you want to push this sacrifice back
give me from the heights a sign
Now or never again!
The demons or the gods want that you live
I invoke the negligence on my horrible gesture
and from now on from now on, nobody in my kingdom
it will name the Cave of the Golden rose
not even the Sacred Beast through that he lives inside her
And you... You will have a name
and the name with which I will call you...
Fantaguiró! Fantaguiró!
But where will he have been going to hide...
Fantaguiró!
Caterina! Carolina!
Where is your sister?
I do not know it. With us it is not... For our luck...
Do not speak this way! It is not well, she is your little sister
I do not speak badly about her. I say only
That if it does not play with us I I prefer it.
She has no grace, does not have good manners.
It will have other qualities, Fantaguiró
What quality? It looks as I have left his dolls
All the depressed ones, the full ones of shreds
It has carved them up as chickens
Yes, the belly has cut this one also
but it was to see what they had inside
And that imports for him what they have inside?
They are nice on the outside...
He listens: I have done the garment to yours
but it is the last one. I am already big
And my dolls? What will they do without you?
Now when you had become so skillful... It looks what elegant they are...
Who is there there? What do you do? You be calm.
What was that blow?
It is the war, girls. Have not you listened to speak about this?
What you have done is a disaster, not the war
This way you have a good motive for speaking badly about me
But what do you hide? Make it meet
I do not hide anything. It looks... It looks...
And do not try to take me, because anyhow you will not obtain it.
We will see that
It is useless that you escape
Fantaguiró! Wait, for!
Goring!
What is this utensil?
It is a musical instrument
Do you teach me to touch it?
If you leave me I teach you at once
It touches with the stones
He stones me the dolls to death!
Fantaguiró, Fantaguiró!
Today also that your father has turned of the war...
The one who has given it to you?
Nobody. I have constructed it alone
Have you made this tirachinas?
Yes, it has been a eaten bread... If you want you can keep it.
I can do other to myself equally
Does there seem to you the way of speaking to your father?
And to you, father: does there seem to you the way of speaking to your daughters?
Look. You have made to weep for Carolina
Fantaguiró. Do not say one more word or...
Yes, already I know it...
Apologize!
Below, of knees! Beg me pardon!
And well? Have you lost the language?
Small speech: speak!
I cannot, you have prohibited it me...
That is taken below: to the well!
Not, to the well not!.
Anyway it does not matter for me. Nothing matters for me!.
It is me who is not afraid! I am not afraid. I am not afraid.
Come already!
It is not necessary that you take me. I am not afraid. No fear.
lower me to the well!.
I am not afraid ... am not afraid.
I do not have to be afraid, cannot be afraid, do not want....
good morning, ratoncitos, good morning.
Not, he is quiet.
keep silent about you, it is only a shade.
You will not want that they discover us.
But was not to come tomorrow better? yes...
to be taken?
Hello, fag.
Fantaguiró! Am I, Carolina. And I also, Caterina.
We have brought something to eat
rats, rats!
be already enough! the rats are there below, close to the cistern.
He waits, but he promises that you will not hurt any more to my doll.
It is not loyal: you take advantage of the fact that is hungry.
Yes: but when I will have another occasion like that?
The bread, Fantaguiró. But it is not for your rats.
eat! But if you do not stop behaving as well as today, that you have been bad
you will always remain in the well
then strain in obeying our father
and not to make to anger his sisters.
And you two have to stop doing these boring games
and our father has to stop shouting us this way
what believes, that does the war also when it is in house with us?
The enemy is opened in the blue Hill, in gentleman
a big battle waits for us
... a big victory waits for us
peace!
the one who has been? the one who has said the odious word?
La Paz will come only with the victory
I will never leave that my people turns into a slaves' short cut
Gentleman: do you love shameless that one?
Not, but allow to go out for my daughter of the well
not without earlier making him promise obedience
I will do it!
For our kingdom: victory!
Do not worry, I will return soon
You can turn it
do you promise that you will not ill-treat the dolls of your sisters again?
I promise it
Do you promise that you will not speak without being questioned?
I promise it
You promise that you will obey your father as soon as king,
as soon as father, as soon as man?
I promise it
You promise that you will obey your older sisters,
to your tutor and to the mister chamberlain?
I promise it
you promise to support, so much in public as privately
a correct and modest behavior?
not to walk quickly, not to cover and not to jump obstacles?
I promise it...
To cook, to cook for, and to take care of a man
and the principal art of a woman who is to be kept silent
and to learn also the art of the humility and of the calmness?
I promise it...
and especially, of giving up reading and writing?
impossible! To read and to write, I do not resign
because it is already late
some time ago that I have learned it
Since forget it!
Pero Carolina: how is it possible to forget anything that is already known?
Also I do not understand why a woman cannot read and write
Because it is an error!
Care in spite of competing with men that you do not meet.
I do not have any intention of meeting men
Fantaguiró! Care with your language. Dad has returned
do you want to finish there below again?
I only want to find another book. This one I have already finished it
and I promise you willingly that I will not read it again!
It was only a stupid and affected history of love...
it is not of my taste
I like the histories of wars, battles,
bold gentlemen and duels
not the languor and the kisses of the lovers
that pledge themselves eternal allegiance
but seriously was your book speaking about these things?
I hope it was me who had learned to read also
but what bundles? Do not cry. Dry off these tears
this way you give him too many satisfaction
the espera nothing more than that
your daughters, majestad
of foot, daughters!
Do not blame us
Carolina: you still have not learned that you do not have to speak
without the permission of the king?
Father has not spoken for his initiatory
I have provoked her
Ah: seriously?
And that you have to say to him so interesting?
He was saying to him that it did not have any reason to cry
it is too sensitive
Something that truly it is not possible to say about you
Caterina: you want cortésmente to refresh the memory of your sister
with regard to the duties of the women?
Clear father
Any woman is lower than the man for nature
mentally and physically
if
lie
it continues
it is his rigorous one must accept of good grade
this inferiority and to surrender to the man humbly
it is he who being demonstrated been grateful for...
lies
how do you dare to interrupt your sister?
Because he was saying something that is not true
I have read it and can...
How? have you read?
who has given you the permission to read?
Do your role as woman and do not get into other matters!
For! Wait! Where do you go?
I go to the well before me begin you. I am more to taste with the rats
what do you believe ...?
what after months of battles
be a pleasure to listen to thousand and thousand complaints on you?
I am like that, a father
And well...
you will change.
I have found the person who will be able to change to you
I am too old to take the war
this way, from now on
I put it in the hands of our brave general
but not during much: I have received a wedding proposal
for you three, daughters
of the princes of Assabel
three young and courageous brothers
with these weddings, the troops of Assabel
they will join our own ones and the control of Assabel
it will go on from the hands of the general
to those of your young husbands
in a few days the applicants
they will come to meet you
meanwhile they send to you the beautiful gifts
that you are on the verge of seeing
Ohhh...
a prince who offers a jewel of such value
for the engagement
it guarantees the well-being and the serenity of our dear kingdom...
father, I obey you of any heart
Carolina
that it astonishes!
The stone is of the color of my eyes
if it is so generous before seeing me
of what gifts will it cover me turning out to be so beautiful?
Fantaguiró...
it is a ring that you have to put oneself in the finger
I will disappoint you again, and I feel it very much...
Put on it in the finger, obey me!
Nobody can buy me ... or sell...
out of my presence!
Your shade I do not also want to see until three princes
do not come to this palace.
And if this day you do not prove to be submitted
I swear that I will repudiate you as daughter
that is what you queráis
Ey, for! where do you go? To the thief!
To the thief! Stop this woman
do not get angry, she is the daughter of the king
you will have another horse
it is a big day, Tonino
do you know that it means to have the control of another army?
Yes, more work
not, more power, idiot. And more wealth
but when the princesses marry?
They will never marry
three princes are very close
and, or they all marry, or none
do you know what means this?
what?
That thanks to Fantaguiró I will be the supreme captain of the army
forever
until it finishes the war
and this work
but the war will not be finished
come here, obey! Stupid beast!
I am sure that you belong my father
that's why you have seizure with me
calm, I do not want to take revenge
but somehow I have to let off steam
Moan!
the one who has spoken?
Moan! What do you do? Why do you get angry with me?
where are you? where do you hide?
Where I hide...
I am different backs, and also I can defend oneself very well
do you see?
We go, less stories
you have to belong to my father, tree...
I give you a blow and you throw me above an entire crop
you could have killed me
it did not have her take with you...
only he wanted to vent the rage that I have inside
my tranquilizing daughter, calm down: the rage hurts
it falls calm, falls calm...
since this way I do not hurt anybody
do you want to stop?
For very little this stone has not fallen down to me in the head
He excuses, fish. Neither with you it had her take.
I do not throw to you any more stones
what do you want to say? what do you throw to him the stones some other?
Not, not, I do not throw any more stones to anybody
and this one now where I throw her?
Eh, not! If you do not throw me, darling, you do to me a favor
Better, he tries to place me first much gentilmente
exactly where have you found me
Skylight. I put you at once.
Not, this is not the place where it was me who was earlier
are you better like that?
Almost we are, one more pelín to the right would be still better
you had found me in the shade, if I am not wrong
here I have the sun in the eyes
but where do you go, that you do? Do not make me planted
I request you do not eat me
but here are all the living things?
why do you surprise, presumptuous?
do you believe the only human being of the entire world?
Everything is alive about us
the plants, the animals, the stones,
the waters of the seas and of the lakes. The air...
and you have to learn his language if you want
to respect them and to live in harmony with them
They know well our language
But they do not use it
if it is not in exceptional cases
They do not use it why...
they him do not like
they do not like the men
and they are right
the best of us we can still be only violent
violent as he has been your father with you
and you it has been violent with the tree, with the stones
with the fish of the lake
if you want still to let off steam do it with your similar ones
but who are you?
How do you know of my father?
The people speak
then they have spoken to you about me
what have they said to you?
That you are disobedient, impulsive, uncontrolled
that you make fun of the whole world
and especially of whom he wants to guide you
and that you cover, you jump,
and that you read above!
Too much for a woman. And you it are: truth?
If, unfortunately
because unfortunately?
Because I hate the rules that are imposed on the women
to be kept silent, to look like a fool, to cook, to embroider, to serve the men...
who has said to you that the women do only that?
and that more they do?
Keep silent about you now. Let's look at the sunset
it is slightly strange and wonderful
it happens only once a day
Rub, rub!
Ah, general
serious news
Do they concern Fantaguiró?
Not. The messenger has just returned of the battlefield
perhaps the war has come to his end
have we suffered a defeat?
Not, thanks to God not
then have we gone out victorious?
Prepare you: the king, your enemy...
continue, that my enemy has done
he has died
has he died? and since he has dared to die this way suddenly?
he will have died because it was old, majestad
old man? Less old than I
perhaps he has died for a misfortune
Yes, but: why does it have to finish the war?
who is going to lead his militias?
The son Romoaldo
because to him yes that him a male has been born
but he will be a child in nappies...
in nappies...
the years happen for all my darling, not only for us
Romoaldo had to come already to his twentieth springs
he is a strong, brave young man
his father has had it far from the war
and he has sent it to distant grounds
where he has learned technical piece of news of combat
new strategies
now it always has close to him
two brave gentlemen of a foreign country:
Ivaldo and Cataldo
the two are skillful and intelligent as him
in this case, instead of having our front
to the only hostile commander
we have neither more nor less than three.
It is not an armor, it is a pitfall.
Not, do not do gentleman
It is the armor of your father. It represents the traditions...
the traditions change, and this one will change at once
it is a sacrilege!
Nobody, from now on
it will shut itself up in this scrap
Ivaldo, Cataldo! Where are you?
Here your majestad, always his orders
liberate me of this
at once, gentleman
we will do it in a moment, your majestad
Moan of you if you keep on calling with these appellative absurdities!
we have understood, majestad
and be enough with the laughs! I have just buried my father
skylight, but it looks at the faces of those dignitaries, Romoaldo
if the sights you also will re-go
poor horse: how have you supported his weight?
It is said that under him they should have died more than thousand in battle
I will fight in a different way.
I do not need cuirasses
this arm and this sword will be my weapon
it cuts two ears
here you have them
Eh, not. It is not well. He gets up again.
The two have to be equal of long
it beats exactly. Do not defend yourself at random
but this sword is heavy!
It is not the sword. It is your arm that is weak...
but if you want to continue that, it does not a matter
in the end it is you who wanted that it was initiating you in the use of the weapon
a sword wasted as a sickle
I want to learn how to fight
do not discuss!
This one field has to be segado before the evening
the enemy is in every plant of wheat
we go, try it again!
It is enough for the time being...
but in a duel it is not sufficient to beat: truth?
do you want to try it?
against whom?
I can challenge you
It takes the sword. in guard!
avoid this!
White gentleman, for
an enemy not for to your will
and I as I can strike it, if it is invisible?
Before learning to beat, you have to learn to defend oneself
where has it gone?
It has disappeared
Care. It looks at your backs
To me...
only, learning to defend oneself, you will learn to fight
to me, to me!
The bread will be donated two times every day
it is not possible, Romoaldo
the flour is scarce.
Being the men in war, there does not stay anybody who is employed at the field
it will be the scarcity, unless...
the war ends
It is not my war
What incentive is there in doing a war of which you do not understand the motivations?
The people is without forces
king Romoaldo is returning!
... only a way is to finish a war:
to gain it!
And to gain it we have to fight
dear subjects, listen to me
listen to your king and his decisions
this war has extended too much
and I want that I am finished
I will challenge the strongest hostile gentleman
in a singular duel
your hand and the rope are only one
and the arch is the extension of your arm
and the arrow, a message that you have to send further possibly
if you do not obtain it, it does not matter
what it imports is to try it
it stretches more, more, more
parate Romoaldo, do not penetrate the hill
I am in my territory
yes, but beyond this hill, it is a hostile territory
do not worry
it chooses a target
do I point at one of these trees?
Too much close. It shoots beyond the hill. It strikes the sun
but it is impossible!
Only what you do not begin is impossible
it points at the sun and shoots
I will never be able to reach it
only after trying it, you will be able to say that
It proscribes the impossible word, Fantaguir ò.
It stretches more, more. With all your forces
shoot!
Tranquilizer, calm down
let's continue it
parate!
Romoaldo! You cannot go over there. It is a hostile territory
wait for us, Romoaldo
but where do you go? Párate Romoaldo
rapid, on horseback, they must not see you!
Run to hide!
Do not wait. You do not have to be afraid
Please, parate. Do not flee
where are you, who you are? Do not flee
I took you
and if I had not been here? Eh?
for what do you look, gentleman, in my forest?
It was not known that it is it belonged, lady
I am the spirit that protects it
and I do not like that you knock down with the sword
the branches that guard my secret
I apologize. A young woman was looking
that one for that you look was taking perhaps an arch, arrows...
and splendid eyes and long chestnut-colored hair
this is what I have managed to see
the woman that you have seen is not of your world
she is a nymph of the lake
but it was shouting like a human being
gentleman, was showing pain for having being seen by mortal eyes
I ask you to leave the forest
I also suffer if I remain with you, human beings
Gone
but those eyes...
look for it in woman's eyes, between your similar ones
when you have found them, you will have found the love
Gone
and do not say to anybody what you have seen here
at all ... anybody, I have not found anybody
better to return to the castle
Yes. I will prepare an embassy for the enemy
Move now. Come out of my roots
I have understood, it is me who helps you... Does it list?
Thank you
come!
Thank you, thank you. If it was not for you perhaps I would have rushed
and the white gentleman?
It has had to go away, but earlier
it has brought here your horse
good. I will look for it again
it is useless. It has set off forever
he was my teacher and he was learning so well
he has said to me that you can be still alone
but on many things I still do not know enough
he has said to me that now you already know how it does to learn
and you are wrong if you want to stand out in everything
in a little time
you have to learn of the life slowly, slowly
because he has spoken with you?
did you know it?
We are good friends for ages
it was the only one that loved me, which was worrying about taking care of me
I was feeling dear, protected
nobody had given to me so much I affect earlier
do not cry, Fantaguir ò
it is not the moment to give in to the tears
you are not alone, have you same
now you have to return to the castle
and to confront the life
but I do not feel prepared to do it
then there have not served you as anything the educations of the white gentleman
it is as if you had never found it
not, I have learned to fight, to have confidence in me same
to communicate to me with the world that I have around
and to know what I want
then, it sees
you are prepared to overcome any obstacle
Do what you must do
and you will see that it will never be alone
not who you are you, but I thank you
if you see the white gentleman again, say to him that it has not lost his time
farewell
Farewell not, Fantaguir ò. See you soon ... very soon
Oh, God!
what happens?
I cannot breathe.
Desabróchamenlo, rapid
Oh, Carolina, I was saying it to you
the vanity will work out for you expensive
Oh... What good. I breathe again. It does not seem real.
Better? Better
Caterina: how long will the princes remain in his visits?
An hour more or less, as I believe
my darling, is too small to show the values that you have inside
the beauty opens the way for the wedding
in any case, you hope that your fiancé should be nice: truth?
The hope sister opens the way for the dear disappointment
but to cultivate a sleep engrandece the heart
I imagine it fair-haired, with eyes of color sapphire
and high good
I prefer an intelligent, kind man
and at the same time loudly. Loudly of fortitude also
his heights, the princes of Assabel
I ... eh ... oh, skylight, yes, a moment...
Essebele, of Assabel, prince of ... of...
he wanted, wanted ...: but that wanted?
Ah, yes. He wanted that you you me wanted munificamente to unite of your daughter...
eh ...: how devils is it called?
Caterina
Caterina! My memory is terrible. Caterina. Have I said good? Caterina?
Ossobole, prince of Assabel. Solemnly I ask you for the hand
of your daughter Carolina
speaking about vain hopes
oh, please, now not
oh, God, your garment
perhaps it is better that she dies suffocated
Ussubule, prince of Assabel
formally I ask you for the hand of Fantaguirò
the princesses and the king are much honored of your request
daughters: have I said good?
I hope, prince Essebele, I deserve your preference
and have in you one good husband and especially
a good commander for the militias of my dear father
your reputation of knowledge has not been refuted
a wise and intelligent woman needed this way
Serve!
With mitigation I will always remain ... ... surprised
Serve!
Fable on your beauty
but this one overcomes any bold fantasy
I do not see the hour of leading you up to Assabel and of covering you with kisses
oh, thank you, prince Ossobole
I touched in foot.
Represent you that today my aspect is not of the best
the rumors that have come to me on your daughter Fantaguir ò
rebel and savage describe it. I like the rebellious women
because to tame them is my pastime
Ah, if? and: where do you have is it the whip, prince?
It is not possible to be a tamer without him
Fantaguir ò! This way do you present yourself in the court? Of this way?
Father, to his height does not import my aspect for him, but my rebellious spirit
to disappoint him would be a pure perfidy
what does darling entertain you?
First of all, do not call me a darling
as for the question he was laughing confused by the delay
but now, after the confusion met it has gone away, because I do not marry with you
do not you like?
After all you are not so ugly, but my poor sisters...
I do not tolerate that they marry with...
an idiot and a monster
will not you want to serve as grassland for these two?
Fantaguir ò, keep silent about you!
Prince Ussubule, his is a feminine astuteness
you dijísteis that you wanted a rebellious woman
she is more than rebel! it is insultadora and arrogant!
It is you who you have insulted us
and as? Your wedding requests insult my rebellious spirit
his intelligence and his beauty
return us the rings!
Fantaguir ò, from now on you will live in the kitchen as a humble friegaplatos
out of here!
Here is the new girl of kitchen
that has the most disagreeable tasks
any thing before learning to cook
I will not lose you of sight, princess, and if you do not want to cook
finished cooked directly in the pan with the ducks
meanwhile it sees to cut the head
out
I of you would not do it
why?
have you ever seen a duck that speaks?
Not: and?
and is not this enough to save the life?
There are many ducks that do not deserve the consideration to me owed
also my specialty is to give good advices
It begins already. How can it have to streak this harridan if I do not kill you?
It is simple. He looks behind the cage. There are many other ducks
on that it has already fallen down the axe
and after that: what do I do?
Ah, do not think it. You will not have left a lot of time in this horrible place
Romoaldo, Romoaldo: where are you?
what do you do? do you play at hiding?
This shot off date of does not know where it has stunned it
vámonos. Earlier or later it will return to the castle
where is your beautiful gentleman?
what do you do on this tree?
Have you ever loved?
Certainly, and not only once, many
and that feels?
How can I explain it to you. I like all
but I always fall in love, swear it
I speak about an absolute love, which takes any other thought from you
that makes you exhausted and deprives you of any will
and it pushes you to wander around without course
... with fool's look
exact: how do you know it?
It is sufficient to look at you. You have fallen in love: eh?
yes.
and of whom?
I do not know, do not know who is
and how cannot you know it? It will have a name, him habrás spoken...
you will know something...
not
then you have dreamed it
not, but I hope dream of her this night
listening, I do not know what what has happened in this forest
but it is not the moment to think about the love
a war is waiting for us
war? It is not a war, it is a duel
he sends to the embassy the enemy with the challenge to his champion
since he wants
Is it he? Yes, keep silent about you
there would come to us from goatees little money more
do you want to keep silent about yourself?
The most illustrious gentleman, big mister general, be in charge
the king has just received a message of the hostile king Romoaldo
the one who proposes a final duel between he and the champion of our navy
but the war must not end
when the king is here, you have
that to dissuade it from accepting the challenge
Fortune tellers! where are devils the fortune tellers?
Here, here, we are here
the doubts of your fortitude will extract you,
gentleman
a duck, a duck, give me another duck, rapidly!
The dead ducks have already been finished. What do I do?
Vé to the quarter of your father, put under the bed and from there, quite heard
but from here since do I go out?
Come to yourself with me
girl, where the duck is, where it is? Rapid!
It runs
what do they say the sacred stones?
Four
two
four, idiot
then that say?
My stones, gentleman, say that in his Army there is no champion
that I was on a par with the young man Romoaldo
then I will be this champion
not gentleman, the colors of the flame say that you accept the challenge, perderéis
and your people will turn into slave of the hardened one Romoaldo
not, not, it would be the ruin. Idiots!
Duck, there is no danger now, you do not have to hide
do not make me alone
come here: but where are you?
Do not worry for me. It sees to the quarter of your father, Fantaguir ò
if, since I have said to you in the kitchen
do not look for me any more now, hide where I have said to you
we will be again
it runs, do not lose your beautiful occasion
good news, gentleman
if continúais this war and you do not accept it is the challenge
earlier or later you will win
have you understood gentleman? We have to continue with the war
not, king Romoaldo is right!
It is necessary that the peace finishes the suffering of the people
his request is just and loyal
what do you want, defeat indecorous?
do not you listen to the prayers of the fortune tellers, gentleman?
I have not listened yet to all of them,
a response is missing and I will have it
white witch: where are you? why have not you returned here?
is the silence your revenge because I did not want to believe you?
what do I have to do so that you return?
speak! You have never lied. I am ready to fulfill your will
come to speak to me! But you want to do it for me,
do it for my daughter, for my people, your people
he speaks, please
Speech, witch!
My mother!
You have invoked me with regretful fortitude. Here you have my forecast
you will accept the challenge of Romoaldo, but care, remember...
Only your progeny will win. Only your progeny will win.
Remember, only your progeny will win. This is my prophecy
but as? I... I have daughters: daughters!
Not, Fantaguir ò, be reasonable, we are women, it is completely absurd
to see to dead persons and all this blood, without speaking about the mud...
we are capable of embroidering, of sewing, of doing things of this type, but not of fighting
and that other can help him?
Our father needs us now. As children it has only us
three daughters, three women.
Probably the prophecy was alluding to a grandson
of course it would do it with great pleasure
we go Carolina, there is no time to make grandchildren
you are right, I admit it
I will go, as elder daughter. And it have been prophesied that the victory
in duel it will be mine, I will win
yes, it is the best decision, Caterina, I am convenient completely
if a top will imposes it, it does not stay any more that to obey
we all will go. The prediction was saying “ progeny “, not first-born
but it is not known who is chosen between three o'clock
and if you were?
I would send one of you to the duel to fight against a man to conquer it
to defy a warrior...
since we would not be strong as the men
But the prophecy is clear: king Romoaldo will be conquered by your progeny
yes, but the women do not go normally to the war
you have neither the force of a man, nor much less courage
on the contrary, in courage we are top
and I demonstrate it to you at once
not, you beautiful hair!
have you gone mad? what means this?
That if I have had the value to sacrifice my beauty
you you are forced to obey the white witch
if the will of the white witch coincides with yours
mine also surrenders
live, I applaud your decision!
But with a condition: nobody will have to discover
that my champions are girls
only the general will be an exception
but for the others, for all the rest
the soldiers, our people, the enemy
you will be warlike
recruited in distant grounds
this way this cage of iron will bother me slightly less
what affront to the beauty to hide the whole hair inside a helmet
and mine, which is so fair-haired: would not I sit down better on the black of the armor?
Not, for nothing, fool
you want that the adversary of account of whom it has faces already
and I caught you for your beautiful long hair
later to cross the neck?
and what devils is this?
Quilted
the armor spoils me the skin
avoid rather the sheet of your adversary
from now on from now on never again
I want to see tools of seam
with only one knife-edge you can deal of now
that of the sword
there has come the hour of giving end to the war
king Romoaldo, of the hostile kingdom has defied in duel
to a champion of ours
the winner of this duel will be also the winner of our conflict
and we have accepted the challenge, but...
we have one but...
king Romoaldo has not boiled away in this war
it comes luxuriantly and fully from energy to this challenge
I do not feel capable of sending to the field
to a champion of ours, that, for graceful and strong that is
it returns of thousand battles seriously flagging
that's why, since three brave foreign warriors
they have been offered for the task
I have entrusted to them the defense of the flag
they will fight up to the victory for the salvation of the kingdom
and the defense of all
let's give our welcome to three champions
that between the first champion, gentleman of Soriano
for will of my father and of my people
that between the second champion, Balone I gave Levriere
for will of my sister, and if I manage to manage, it will be a miracle
that between the third champion, Conde de Baldoca
Ey, now touches you! What raisin, have you changed opinion?
what do you say? Today it is the best day of my life, I swear it
exaggerated, that will have of good the war,
I will be a duck but I do not understand this
care, care!
Towards the victory, I want her and I will obtain it
(C) By nonickname
http://subscene.com/
