Victory in Ukraine and the Expulsion of the
German Invaders from the Boundaries of the
Ukrainian Soviet Territory
Historical chronicles of the Red Army mighty
years 1943-44
showed the courage of our warriors to the whole
world.
This war was filled with genius leaders and
proved the unlimited will of the Soviet people for
the victory over Nazis. In the name of the
prosperity of our socialist Homeland and its noble
ideals.
Battle-front unit directors: V. Shtatland, S. Gurov,
M. Oschurkov
Cinematography by K. Bohdan, B. Vakar, N.
Vikhirev, V. Voitenko, I. Goldshteyn, V.
Dobronitskiy, D. Ibragimov, P. Kasatkin, I.
O. Kovalchuk, A. Krichevskiy, Yu. Kun, K.
Kutub-Zade, A. Laptiy, G. Mogilevskiy, V.
Orlyankin, M. Otsep, P. Rusanov, A. Semin, A.
Film by Honoured art worker Oleksandr
Dovzhenko, Honoured artist of the republic
Yu. Solntseva
Author of narration: O. Dovzhenko Narrator: L.
Khmara
Assistant directors: F. Filippov, K. Kulagina,
M. Pankina, A. Kozyr, A. Shvachko
Original music by G. Popov Conductor: N. Anosov
Sound editors: V. Kotov, Ye. Kashkevich
Animators: I. Vago, A. Belyakova
Concept by Yu. Solntseva, A. Kuznetsov Military
consultant - Major General S. Platonov Production
managers: D. Yanover, A. Kobrin
The film is based on the real-life episodes of
German chronicles
Central Studio of Documentary Films "Insignia of
the Red Banner" and Ukrainian Cinema
Chronicles Studio 1945 Present
Let's not show the most horrifying in this picture.
Let's not aggravate our soul with seeing the
death.
Let's not talk about the unlimited and
unprecedented torments by the Germans,
about the grief of mothers, about the open
wounds of the tortured children,
about the millions, who were held captive, about
every fourth Ukrainian house, that was burnt and
about the numerous ruins of our cities.
Let's show the humanity only a little share of the
pictured violence.
Let our descendants see, if this film survives,
through hundreds of years, how Nazis disdained
the human labour in the middle of the 20th
how they hated prosperity, dignity and honour of
our people.
We didn't take these shots. Enemy camera
operators filmed the violence of their brutal
generation on the Ukrainian Soviet suffering
Here they are crawling away, behind the Dnipro,
poor with courage Hitler's Nibelungen.
Their divisions, defeated in severe fights, are
dragging away taking with them some stolen
herd,
and blowing up factories, buildings and stations
on the way. Destroying, tearing apart the
outskirts of Kyiv.
Darnytsia is burning, Mykilska Slobodka and
Trukhaniv Island are falling down after being
bombed. The Dnipro Bridges are blown up.
Berlin is getting worried.
The radio-roar is all-over on the air. Hitler, who
was defeated from Stalingrad to Poltava is now
crying about"The Dnipro's Line".
The Criminal is getting scared. To lose the Dnipro
- to lose Ukraine! To lose Ukraine -fall of
Germany.
He orders to keep the Right Bank of the Dnipro at
any cost. He sends additional divisions from
France.
He is already saving the 'European civilisation",
not just saving himself!
Alarm! The Red Army at the Dnipro!
The most threatening enemy of the enemies of
humanity - the Red Army was getting close to the
Dnipro.
In Autumn, 1943 eveRYThing being close to the
Dnipro banks is on move.
As was ordered by the Supreme
Commander-in-Chief of the Red Army
all four Ukrainian fronts from Polissia to overflow
land of Zaporizhia
were moving as an iron flow to the West.
Armed with all the military experience, tested in
the battles of Stalingrad, Voronezh, Belgorod,
Kharkiv, on the Don and other outstanding fights,
the Soviet Army came to the Dnipro. With an
incredible rapidity they suddenly occupied the
Dnipro
near Pereiasliv-Khmelnytskyi, north of Kyiv, near
Vyshhorod and south-east of Kremenchuk.
The Great Battle of Dnipro started.
The battle, that entered the history of wars as an
exceptional event,
as 'the Dnipro's Wonder".
The brilliant mind of commanders and genius of
the people, the colossal power of unprecedented
efforts, wrath
and dignity of the solders and officers- all of it
came out as a fact.
Thousands of years spent by Slavs on the Dnipro
inspired the exploits of generations.
And the Day of Judgement was seen forthe first
time by Kyiv Pechersk Lavra, the holiest ancient
place bombed down by Nazis.
It was looking from below its golden debris at
the dark waters of the Great Slavonic river.
Dark heroic nights, full of military wonders, took
place.
Autumn nights of stern soldier happiness,
nights of courage and such tensions,
that were not known to man before.
The hatred of the fighting sides was so high,
large amount of warriors were longing forthe
death of their enemy.
Liberators of the Fatherland wished forthe
victory so much that the death sometimes
refused to accept the killed.
That is when the warriors seemed to come out
from the depth of hell
and after looking at their death-paths
they surprised the others by courage and
incredible will of their nature.
The first fights on the right bank of the river
Dnipro
started in order to capture Bukryn beach-head,
opposite Pereiasliv-Khmelnytskyi city.
This is where General Vatutin was first to convey
the large bodies of tank troops
of General Rybalko and General Kravchenko over
the Dnipro.
Using the backup of several thousands of guns of
different calibres
they struck a blow against the enemy forces.
However, the Germans quickly called for tank
and infantry armies from other regions of Kyiv
and Znamenka to back them up.
Long violent fight started with the progress going
back and forth.
During the same time, the armed forces of the
Second Ukrainian Front
underthe command of General Konev
defeated the enemy near Kryvyi Rih and occupied
the large railway station Piatykhatka.
After this, the armed forces of the Third Front
underthe command of Malinovskiy
managed to free such large cities of Prydniprovia
as Dniprodzerzhynsk and Dnipropetrovsk.
It was the first significant victory of our army in
the fight of the Dnipro.
Even though our cities were burning, even
though some giant factories were destroyed by
the enemy
and bridges blown up, and Germans were still
violently counter-attacking
from the regions of Znamenka and Kryvyi Rih and
even achieved a temporary balance,
the beach-head was now won.
As if some giant sword it cut the German
defences into two parts on the Right Bank,
in the most vulnerable place.
During the Kryvyi Rih fight at its height, General
Tolbukhin have passed the Fourth Front to the
offensive
and cut off the Crimea by the third of November.
During the same time, the First Front Command,
who could see that the fight for Bukryn
beach-head doesn't give any result,
secretly sends the main tank forces to Vyshhorod,
where the mass agglomeration of our forces took
place.
The pontoon-bridge and crossings were built for
army transfer overthe Dnipro.
Tank forces of General Kravchenko and General
Rybalko suddenly enter Vyshhorod,
leaving more than one hundred kilometres
behind, which were passed secretly from the
enemy.
Vatutin's forces entered Fastiv on the third of
November, avoiding Kyiv on the way.
German defences were attacked by such amount
of artillery forces and with such a power,
that they had never known before, as they later
admitted.
Destructive fire might literally pushed the enemy
to the ground.
Tanks of General Rybalko and General
Kravchenko occupied the newly formed gap in
defence.
At the sunrise on Novemberthe sixth, just before
the great celebration eve,
ancient Kyiv, symbolic city of our unbreakable
unity,
appeared in front of the fighters in its tragic
grace.
The last flocks of butchers and incendiaries are
running away.
Nazi plague is perishing.
Here are the first saviours rushing into the city.
The first messengers of liberation.
But why there are no greetings?
Where are the people?
Where is the crowd of happy Kyiv citizens?
There are none.
Bittertaste of conflagration devoured empty
streets and squares.
Bohdan put his mace up above the historical fire.
Come fast, descendants1 The people are in
captivity!
Pursue and break the enemy. Have your revenge.
And pour on freedom with the villainous blood of
your enemy.
With crashing thunderthe Kravchenko tankers
went along boulevard Shevchenko.
Here are the Kyiv citizens.
What a modest greeting in the smoke. It seems
like in a dream, so little of them.
No triumph in their eyes.
Nobody could recognize Kyiv citizens during this
day. Neither could they recognize themselves.
They were changed so much by these hard years.
Two years under Nazi slavery seemed like two
centuries, lived beyond the human nature,
lost in the robbed empty city. It brought a heavy
load on their souls.
Two hundred thousand citizens were executed by
shooting, tortured, hanged, poisoned in gas
chambers.
Two hundred thousand1... Others were captured,
taken away or hiding in forests, ravines, on
cemeteries.
More than one hundred thousand of poor citizens
were shot and thrown to Babyn Yar.
Babies were buried alive, along with killed
mothers.
It could be seen how the ground was shaking
from the movements of the living people.
There were raids with dogs on people, and
people were hiding like animals.
People were crying, screaming, cursing, saying
goodbye forever.
Small children could see such pictures, that even
the greatest Dante,
who wrote 'Hell" wouldn't have ever imagined.
Let Kyiv never forget these young men -the
heroes of Dnipro.
Let poets glorify them during the good flow
of good times for many years.
How they rose from every part of the Soviet
Union to Volodymyr's hill,
how the dear river banks with white sand
became red of blood.
Marshal Zhukov, the Representative of the
Supreme Commander-in-Chief Headquarters,
Commander of the First Ukrainian Front General
Vatutin
and the Head of Ukrainian government Khruschov
are meeting the liberated citizens of Kyiv.
Dear comrades1 I would like to greet all of you on
behalf of
the Red Army, officers and generals
with this historical defeat of the German
occupants of the Kyiv region.
Congratulations on liberation of the capital of
Ukraine - Kyiv city!
Comrades! Such a defeat, that Germans got near
the Kyiv region, they had never expected.
Let the enemies remember and never forget,
that our great soviet people
have now united around their dear leader,
comrade Stalin,
united to be ready to fight, as never before1
We will fight the enemy until the moment, when
we get a complete victory1
Let, comrades, our great soviet people live1
Long live our Supreme Commander-in-Chief,
comrade Stalin! Long live!
Long live great, wise Stalin1
Supreme Commander-in-Chief Marshal of the
Soviet Union comrade Stalin has granted
many bodies of troops with the name "...of Kyiv"
in their division and regiment titles.
Long live and honour to the liberators of Kyiv city.
To Kyiv divisions and regiments1
Please, allow me, dear comrades, as a
Commander of the Front, assure you
that glorious Kyiv divisions and regiments
will take this honourable name and status and
bring it to the West, to the complete victory over
the enemy!
The fight with Germans, with German occupants
has united us
within the Communist party even more than ever
before.
It united the people of all the Soviet Union under
the banner of our Bolshevik party,
under the leadership of our great chief, our wise
Stalin.
Long live our Great Soviet People1
Long live our brave Red Army1
Long live our great Commander, our beloved
Stalin!
Germans, who were defeated near Kyiv, are
running away, shaking with fear of being
encircled.
Armed forces of General Vatutin proceed with
their attack on Fastiv.
After fortifying in Fastiv, they move their infantry
and cavalry to Korosten and Zhytomyr.
By this time Germans brought eight more tank
divisions from Germany and from the South.
And on the 12th Novemberthey've launched the
counter-offensive on Fastiv.
However, the forces of Vatutin resisted this
attack and occupied Zhytomyr and Korosten.
The greatest threat got above all German forces
of the right bank.
Hitler's command tries to return Zhytomyr and
Korosten at any cost.
It throws large back up forces into
counter-attack.
At the cost of huge losses they manage to occupy
Zhytomyr and Korosten again
and come closerto Brusilov.
However, they couldn't move any further.
Tank divisions of General Rybalko and General
Bogdanov step into the fight.
The enemy got crashed, as if it crashed into the
iron wall.
When the enemy was worn out, our forces
started the attack on the 24th of December.
The Dnipro Battle was won.
A very large gap was made in the German
defences on the Right Bank Ukraine.
The Red Army split the German wall and with a
great threat came above the German forces of
the southern front.
There were nineteen tank divisions out of twenty
six tank divisions that the enemy had on the
eastern front.
The time had come.
At the end of December all Ukrainian fronts came
into action.
The first to make the main attack were the forces
of Vatutin on Koziatyn-Vinnytsia and forces of
Konev on Kirovohrad.
The battle for Vinnytsia was extremely severe
and persistent.
Germans had brought substantial reserves here
and counter-attacked for very long time against
the centre of the First Ukrainian Front.
For more than two months Vinnytsia was shaking
with the crashing sound of weapons.
During this fight the left wing of the First
Ukrainian Front together with the right wing of
the Second
encircled the large group of enemies in the
region of Korsun-Shevchenkivskyi.
Obviously Germans didn't want to lose their
Dnipro positions.
Despite being desperate,
Hitler's command still kept the hope to return the
right bank of Ukraine and move to Dnipro again.
After making a long chain of defensive
constructions,
ten enemy divisions are getting down to the
ground.
In the ground now.
Hitler's special order was given to stuff all
soldiers with food.
Meat, lard, eggs, sandwiches, three portions of
schnapps per dead.
Eighty thousand heads were chewing and
champing.
After a week, when half of them will already be
killed,
Hitler will give another order for the ones who
survived, to kill their wounded colleagues
and shoot themselves. And they will shoot
themselves out of fear.
The Dnipro Battle lasted forfourteen days.
Hoping for support, Hitler's forces were fighting
with a big courage and persistence.
And support was really on the way.
After finishing the attacks on east from Vinnytsia,
Germans moved five hundred tanks to
Zvenyhorodka and Lysianka in order to make a
But the forces of General Vatutin and General
Konev managed to counter attack them,
destroying twenty seven thousand Nazi soldiers
Hitler shouldn't have threatened his generals.
He shouldn't have used the radio to order all
commit a suicide once they get captured.
He shouldn't have given three portions of
schnapps to all the encircled.
Nothing could save them anyway.
As enraged beasts they were running around in
the steel Dnipro circle.
The circle was getting tighter.
Just before the end of the battle a severe blizzard
took up the fields.
All land, ravines, steppes and roads were heavily
covered with snow. The sound of clashing
weapons was heard along with snowstorm near
And on the fifteenth morning, when blizzard
suddenly stopped and no more weapons were
heard,
our beloved Generals came out of the house.
After having a good talk, Marshal Zhukov,
General Vatutin, General Konev, Moskalenko,
Trofimenko, Rybalko, Rotmistrov -
all the great headquarters of commanders and
organisers of this Dnipro victory were there to
see.
One more Stalingrad, that magnified our
weapons with immortal glory.
Just in front of them, seventy nine thousand
killed enemies
were spread silently under the white snow-cover
of the "East living space".
These enemies emptied our land with robberies,
diseases, and fire.
They filled our fields with mines, and for many
years our children will keep suffering from them.
Their General Stemmerman was also there, on
the snow.
Eighteen thousand of deafened captured people
were babbling the learnt stereotype truth -
Hitler kaput. Hitler kaput. Hitler kaput!
In the beginning of March three Ukrainian fronts
started their famous attack,
which mixed up the strategic plans of the enemy
by its suddenness.
The main forces of the First Ukrainian Front were
taken from the Koziatyn region to Shepetivka
region.
On the fourth of March the attack went directly
southwards from this point, to the main railway
communication system of Germans -
On the sixth of March a huge attack was brought
by Marshal Konev to Uman.
Germans were hoping to stop the movement of
the Red Army at this particular place.
However, the tanks of Marshal Rotmistrov struck
a blow against Uman with such an incredible
force and courage,
that shocked enemies had to run for their lives in
panic, leaving all the armament behind.
Twenty thousand enemy corpses were spread
around Ukrainian steppes.
All Nazi menagerie - panthers, tigers, - five
hundred tanks,
out of which two hundred were ready to use,
artillery of all calibres, huge number of military
belongings were left on Uman land.
After breaking through enemy defence forces,
the Second Ukrainian front went to the Romanian
boundary, to Prut.
By seeing the threat of a new encircling, the
enemy runs away from Vinnytsia region towards
Kamianets-Podilskyi - Yarmolyntsi.
Then the main forces of the First Front break the
enemy's defence between Ternopil and
Volochivsk and, by moving directly to the South,
occupy Zalischyky, Chernivtsi,
Kamianets-Podilskyi.
The way to the West was cut off for entire
Proskurov detachment of Germans.
Meantime, the troops of the Second Front, which
were moving along the Dnipro towards Khotyn,
cut off the way to Rumania and closed the circle.
Fourteen Nazi divisions died inside this ring, and
only few of them survived and managed to slip
away, leaving all the equipment behind.
The Second Ukrainian Front arrived in Prut, to the
boundary with Rumania.
On the sixth of March, the Third Ukrainian Front,
under the leadership of General Malinovskiy
attacked the enemy towards Novyi Buh direction
and broke its defence.
Cavalry of Pliyev moved to the breach.
After liberating Novyi Buh, the cavalry and tank
bodies of troops went towards Mykolaiv.
That's when the new message about our victory
went across the country.
Following the orders of the Representative of the
Supreme Commander-in-Chief Headquarters
Marshal Vasilevskiy,
the troops of General Malinovskiy encircled the
major forces of the Sixth Hitler's army
south-west of Novyi Buh
and defeated them.
Only fourteen thousand of survived enemies were
left in captive.
After panic freeing themselves of their weapons
they lost their stylish Prussian walk and dragged
along on the enemy's blacksoiled land with great
difficulty.
And they started to talk somehow differently, and
even raised their hands in a new way.
Death to Hitler!
On the thirteenth of April, the celebration of
victory and liberation came to the streets of
Odesa.
Unbreakable Soviet people came out of the dark
catacombs.
'Long live! Long live! Long live the liberators of
our Fatherland! Long live the heroic Red Army!
Long live the great Stalin1"- these words were
heard on Odesa squares for very long time.
All of it happened in spring 1944.
If we look through all the titanic fights during
this spring, which can't even be described,
if we look at these roads, where the victory of
immense difficulty overthe enemies of humanity
was taking place,
and if we count all the incredible losses of the
enemy during this spring - we can come to one
clear conclusion:
The Red Army held a victory of historical value for
the whole world and this victory shall be eternal.
Something that seemed impossible for all
commanders of the world and for German
seasonal war strategy makers particularly,
turned out to be possible for the Red Army.
Following Suvorov's traditions and genius of
Marshal Stalin,
the Army of the Soviet Union people made
impossible a reality and this was the moving
point
to liberate most of the Western Europe from Nazi
forces in 1944.
Nothing, not a large force and effort of the
enemy, not even severe weather conditions -
nothing could stop the Red Army.
The spring was incredible.
It seemed as if the Nature itself started the
World War - blizzards, snowstorms,
the ice was breaking,
the rain was fighting against snow. Steppes and
roads turned into swampy marshland.
And again - snowstorms and drifting snow.
Unbearable conditions for any kind of attacks.
All could bear. Where engines couldn't cope,
Soviet hands could, Soviet shoulders and people's
wrath.
From these farm-lands the historical thunder of
war went through the whole world.
It was the place where "seasonable" military art
of Nazi was beaten by almighty art of the Soviet
commanders.
Millions of liberated Ukrainian brothers joined
the Red Army here.
They were in a hurry. After saying goodbyes to
their children, crying over the tortured sisters
and swearing on the mothers' tears,
on the death sufferings of their fathers, they took
the weapon of the Fatherland and went faster.
They were from Kyiv, Volyn, Podillia, Mykolaiv.
The spring of victory on Ukrainian farm-lands
was as extraordinary and hard as the victory
itself.
It seemed to open all Earth wounds. No more
happy tractor noises, no more merry
seeding-machines.
Dug up with trenches and craters, filled with
mines and steel sculls, the fields of great battles
formed a dramatic and harsh view.
Fascism ruined some excellent farming
equipment, ravaged tractor stations, destroyed
the cattle.
Sister republics helped Ukraine with the cattle
and machinery.
Helped to restore one thousand two hundred
tractor stations.
Despite this great help, people were still using
horses and cows for agriculture.
Where there was not enough cows, shovels were
used.
Old grandfathers were teaching the noble work
of farming to their grandchildren to make them
the masters of the land.
All generations started the fight for the harvest.
And this blond boy, who also came out to the
farms, beloved by all. Millions of fathers were
fighting for his happiness.
Our Ukrainian guerrillas were coming back from
the far trips with good news, full of pride and
happiness.
Hello, always worried Ukrainian mother! Here
take your sons, Stalin contemporaries.
Hello, father!
We are so happy, that during this hard time we
are walking along with you on this land.
We protected our Soviet land underthe
Lenin-Stalin banner
and our history - the past and the future. Nothing
could break us, not even fire,
nor blood, nor ruins... The courage of our people
is immense.
Their optimism, diligence and will have no limits.
Poltava region alone is building fifty thousand
flats, thousands of clubs and schools during this
only year.
Our mothers and sisters have golden hands. A
few years will pass.
More newly built villages will grow in the
gardens.
Huge ruins of our wounded cities will disappear
and Khreschatyk will rise again from the dead,
even more full of glory and beauty.
The bridges across the Dnipro will be built again.
The monuments of our great people will be put
on the squares and on the top of Dnipro hills.
They will be holding the weapons in their hands
and looking into the distant future.
All factories and electric power stations were
ruined in Yenakiieve,
Stalino, Kostiantynivskyi, Voroshylovskyi, in
Dnipropetrovsk, Kramatorsk, Mariupol.
Makiivka metallurgical giant-factory was
completely destroyed.
It used to make so much metal as Italy and
Poland were making together.
Conglomeration of blown up concrete, mountains
of formless metal, slag and bricks, everywhere.
It seemed that it was easier to build Donbas from
scratch, than heal its open wounds.
But the Soviet metallurgists, who learnt well the
school of Stalin's five-year plans,
didn't give up at these ruins.
The picture of destructions didn't scare them
away. Instead it encouraged them to reconstruct
all,
regardless of enemy plans.
Industry, that Donbas was famous for, was
completely destroyed by the enemy.
Our miner's labour became thrown back by half a
century...
The first repairteam brought buckets, ropes and
picks from their homes.
The first buckets of coal were the heaviest.
However, our people have found the courage.
During the very fights on the fronts, they
harnessed themselves to an antediluvian
self-made winch.
They despised nothing - not a winch, nor bucket,
nor even a cart.
Save the coal, comrades!
Soviet government managed to revive southern
metallurgy.
Kryvyi Rih mines, Donbas, plants and factories of
Kharkiv, Prydniprovia,
Zaporizhia, Dnipropetrovsk, Mariupol - all our
large industry front got rid off the German yoke
and started the new attack. It is hard to find any
other urge like this towards the wound healing
as revivers of metallurgy were possessed with.
Every day ends with examples of dignity, which
can only be compared to the battle dignity of war
heroes.
And here is our woman - the labour heroine, our
mother, sister and friend. There are more
women, than men.
They are everywhere - in reconstruction of
Donbas and Prydniprovia, as well as on farms.
On every single part of the work women have the
most important role.
Never before a woman had entered history with
such an earned glory,
as our heroic Soviet woman did.
EveRYThing required exceptionally high effort.
Mountaineers of Donbas found the strength to
overcome these difficulties.
Relying on the help of the party, the government
and personal help of the comrade Stalin,
they made a job in a very short term, which is
worth its epoch.
Coal and coke filled all the forges of victory.
The fire enlightened in blast-furnaces, the metal
began to sparkle.
And there was no bigger happiness, than the
happiness of the authors of fire,
creators of the first flows of iron and steel.
Here the steel is moving towards East, to Ural
defence factories.
Here is the sparkle of the southern steel - it's
melting, forging, pouring into special forms of
weapons and tanks
and, as the tempered will of peoples, aims at the
West, to finish off the enemy.
This time will be saved in the history of victories,
as heroic time, since there was not a single
factory,
where workers and engineers stopped making
heroic deeds per each day.
Step by step, meter by meter, the winners were
fighting for factory areas,
pushing away the zone of ruins and chaos.
Every single day raises their spirit, opens wider
horizons.
Here is our pride of the first Five-year plan.
Beloved by all country, built to live thousand
years - Dnipro Hydro-Electric Station
Is there a travelling warrior, working farmer,
pit-facing miner, orphan in capture?
Is there a human soul that wouldn't wish in its
fair wrath
to fill all the trenches with Nazi bones?
Summer 1944, the Red Army was far behind the
Dniester.
No, fascism didn't die in the far eastern steppes,
not even severe Russian winters could break it.
Force conquered force. Conquered it and its spirit
was kicked out by the mighty Stalin's family of
peoples.
It was defeated by our warriors, in the straight
titanic battles by the superiority of home-made
weapons and moral superiority.
Here they are, following the enemy.
They are professors of the fight and cruel battles.
They are from Moscow, Stalingrad,
Novosibirsk, Poltava, Zaporizhia, Alma-Ata,
Chernihiv, Minsk...
'Engineers"and workers" of war from Orlov,
Belgorod and Sumy they are the masters and
executives of the victory.
The fight could be heard near Lviv city - on the
Brody place, in the Carpathian mountains.
The large way was behind. We survived the
incredible work and wounds.
We are temporarily going away from the noise of
fights and following the wounded to the rear.
Let's take pride for the work of Ukrainian
scientists.
Let's pop in to Academician Filatov.
This world known scientist is returning the
eyesight to many, who were blinded in the
battles.
Here is lieutenant Aksenov in the surgery. Will he
see the liberated world?
Lieutenant Aksenov is being treated.
Let's hope for the wonder...
Silence.
The front and army headquarters are quiet, as if
before the thunder.
Army commanders were getting ready forthe
fight for Lviv.
General Moskalenko was checking the last
orders.
Talking to tankers, unstoppable Rybalko,
Commander of Aviation General Krasovskiy.
Talks and meetings were held in the
headquarters of cavalry group of General
Baranov and in the headquarters of tank forces of
Marshal Malinovskiy and Marshal Tolbukhin were
getting ready for the attack on Rumania.
July the fourteenth, ordered by the Supreme
Commander-in-Chief,
the troops of the First Ukrainian Front started the
attack towards Lviv city.
It took them only three days to break the enemy's
defence and by taking fast and furious action
from north-western and southern regions of
they encircled the whole Brody detachment of
Germans.
- Second division! Open fire!
...Seagull! Seagull-81 I'm - Hawk One! The
group Yu-87 is to the right of you, at route 90.
Attack them! Attack now!
Attack. - Fine, attacking... Good.
During the month of blood work our fate was to
destroy one hundred and forty thousand
enemies, here, in the battle of Lviv.
Thirty two thousand were taken into captivity.
The battle was here!
Nearthese Brody alone we, the warriors of the
First Ukrainian Front killed them thirty cursed
thousand.
We killed thirty thousand to let others know, who
are looking at our wounds.
For the freedom of our Fatherland we were ready
to bring wrath, work and even sacrifice our
blood.
What was going on here!
EveRYThing was passed from here and there.
What a grand space!
What war masters used to live here! What a
walk!
How they marched through the whole Europe1
How much wine was consumed of all European
brands!...
How much was eaten, robbed, humiliated, killed1
What a fire was lighting up their drang nah
osten"!
But the wind returned to its proper position. The
Prussian spirit is now lost on the Soviet land.
And these daring boys have now disappeared.
They are sitting in captivity, third sort of
wonder-men, the combination of butchers and
Officer arrogance was melted, the hope was lost.
All strategic plans were lost without a trace and
hope,
heads were lost,
and horrible blood experience doesn't show
anything promising in the future. Nothing at all.
'East living space" was walked through, back and
forward.
The time is coming when all tear off and hide
their iron crosses.
And face wounds will also be hidden, as criminal
hides the stigma.
And the word fascist" will be in all the
dictionaries of humanity with the meaning of
something criminal or bad.
During the very Battle of Brody General Rybalko
moved on breach from the region of Zolochiv to
Lviv.
Unexpected forthe enemy the tanks appeared at
the northern part of the city.
The cavalry of General Baranov came here via
Buh.
Defeated enemy was running away, and tanks
under the command of General Leliushenko
moved into the battle.
After Leliushenko, the airforces of General
Krasovskiy arrived.
The enemy is trying to escape!
With a sudden assault Leliushenko tanks entered
Lviv outskirts from the south-east.
Enemy, gripped in a vice, was annihilated within
two days.
Our forces entered the city in the morning of the
twenty seventh of July. The liberated ancient
Ukrainian city Lviv
was welcoming the army, which took such a long
trip. The Army of Freedom.
During these glorious days it was also met in
Peremyshl, Stanislav,
in the towns of Belorussia and many other
liberated towns of the Soviet republics.
There were no more sweet looking peaceful
youngsters of the year forty one.
Cruel school of war, knowledge, that was gained
in fire and thunder, the feeling of historical
events of the world importance and responsibility
forthe human destiny brought a special stamp on
the armed people of the Soviet Union.
The sun was shining. People were getting
crowded on the squares.
Marshal Konev and the Head of Ukrainian
government Khruschov can be seen here among
the liberated people.
They are standing on tribune. They are greeting
the people, who came to welcome them on this
happy day.
Comrades, dear brothers and sisters of the
glorious Lviv city!
On behalf of the armed forces of the First
Ukrainian Front I would like to greet you
with the liberation from German occupation of
our dear Lviv city.
The Red Army accomplished its patriotic mission
with dignity.
The liberation of all Ukrainian land has
happened.
The army went into the Carpathians.
When the fight was still going in Prydniprovia,
there was the fight of Ukrainian guerrillas of the
national hero Kovpak.
There weren't many of them, but they were a big
threat forthe enemies, as prophets, as messiahs
of the victory.
Many of them died during the fight.
General Rudnev, a great Russian person also died
here.
But how beautiful the caps of the mountains!
The back up routes of the Red Army are going
from here to Berlin, via Poland, Czechoslovakia
and Hungary.
This is a long way. And only history would be able
to judge the greatness of ideas and hard work of
its performers.
Finally, all Ukrainian people were liberated of the
Nazi occupation and were gathered in one Soviet
state.
From the Carpathians to Danube,
through the Dnipro, where our youth was buried
in the dark waters
and far to the east the bright banner of the great
Lenin can be seen throughout the Ukrainian land!
Avoiding the fire and chaos of destructions, we
enter Ukrainian garden, along with our heroes.
It looks like a celebration, but the celebration is
still to come.
A lot more battles are waiting for us.
And the heroes come to their relatives and
beloved ones only for a very short period of time,
so that later they can see more clear dreams
about their sons and home land. The smile of a
working wife,
dear streets, where golden childhood flew by so
fast.
For three long years the Chernihiv lieutenant
Ivan Noha was fighting at the Baltic Front.
But now his wish came true - dear street, dear
wife.
As if the wings carrying her to her dear Ivan.
At this moment they lost their minds and forgot
about eveRYThing, staying near the apparatus, as
some happy signs of hope for all, who is still in
Flows of bread for the army and labour of the
country
are not moving on the three-ton machines yet.
Half of Kharkiv is still ruined, but Ukrainian
people are already on the squares, as in other
demonstrating for themselves the creative and
constructive force.
On the fatherland of Bohdan Khmelnytskyi, near
Pereiasliv, several collective farms come for the
celebration of harvest.
The head of the collective farm, partisan
Mykhailo Hrom, opens Grand National Feast.
Long live Stalin, dear humanity! Long live the
Life!
This is the law of Nature, when life beats death,
as light beats darkness,
and as intellect beats insanity.
And the measure of life is still the good, and not
the evil, love, but not hatred.
Otherwise there will be no humanity.
Superiority of our warrior above the German one
- is a moral superiority of our people, our state
policy.
Our soldiers are more brave and cultural than the
soldiers of the enemy.
Our officers, our marshals, our generals are more
talented, deeply educated and daring at the art of
war.
Our workers, collective farmers and mothers of
our children know what sacrifice is.
Liberated Ukrainian people, along with the
government of Soviet Ukraine would like to thank
the great Russian people
and all sister republics of the Soviet Union for
their help in saving our sovereignty.
To the victory, to the confirmation of our
existence in the front line of all humanity.
Ukrainian hero-people are greeting their Red
Army forthe feats.
And the great immortal name of their leader is
extolled with the triumph on millions of victory
meetings.
The End
SubRip from DVD (Marin88)
