I mislike the feel of these woods.
Creatures that live in a unicorn's forest learn a little magic of
their own in time; mainly concerned with disappearing.
Unicorns?
I thought they only existed in fairy tales.
This is a forest, like any other - isn't it?
Then why do the leaves never fall here, or the snow?
Why is it always spring here?
I tell you there is one unicorn left in the world, and as long as it
lives in this forest, we'll find no game to hunt here.
Let's turn around, hunt somewhere else.
All right.
Stay where you are, poor beast! This is no world for you.
Stay in your forest and keep your trees green and your friends
protected.
And good luck to you, for you are the last.
I am the only unicorn there is? The last?
When the last eagle flies over the last crumbling mountain,
And the last lion roars at the last dusty fountain,
In the shadow of the forest, though she may be old and worn,
They will stare, unbelieving, at the last unicorn...
When the first breath of winter through the flowers is icing,
And you look to the north, and a pale moon is rising,
And it seems like all is dying, and would leave the world to mourn,
In the distance, hear the laughter of the last unicorn!
I'm Alive!
I'm Alive!
When the last moon is cast over the last star of morning,
And the future has passed without even a last desperate warning,
Then look into the sky, where through the clouds a path is torn,
Look and see her, how she sparkles, it's the last unicorn!
I'm Alive!
I'm Alive!
That cannot be. Why would I be the last?
What do men know?
Because they have seen no unicorns for a while does not mean
that we have all vanished! We do not vanish!
There has never been a time without unicorns.
We live forever.
We are as old as the sky, old as the moon.
We can be hunted, trapped; we can even be killed if we leave our
forests, but we do not vanish!
Am I truly the last?
Wave the flag for Hudson Highborn, show them how we stand!
I am a roving gambler; how do you do?
Hello, butterfly, welcome! Have you traveled very far?
How far would I travel, yessir! - to be where you are?
Clay lies still, but blood's a-rover. Red Rover, Red Rover, let
Charlie come over!
Won't you come home, Bill Bailey, won't you come home?
My wild Irish rose.
Be a little respectful, butterfly! Do you know who I am?
Excellent well, you're a fishmonger!
You're my everything, you are my sunshine, you're old and grey and
full of sleep, you're my pickle-faced, consumptive Mary Jane!
Say my name, then. If you know my name, tell it to me.
Your name is a golden bell hung in my heart.
I would break my body to pieces to call you once by your name!
Say it, if you know.
Rumpelstilstkin! Gotcha!
I should know better than to expect
a silly butterfly to know my name.
One, two, three o'lairy!
Butterfly, in all your wanderings, have you seen others like me?
Have you seen even one?
Oh, have you seen the muffin man, the muffin man, the muffin man?
Butterfly, even one? Tell me that you saw only one?
One? One alone, to be my own... Up goes downwind, up go down!
Go and catch a falling star...
It serves me right for even asking you.
All butterflies know are songs and poetry
and anything else they hear.
I guess you mean well.
Fly away, butterfly.
Oh, I must take the A train,
oh, I am a cook and a captain bold and the mate of the Nancy brig.
Has anybody here seen Kelly?
I hope you hear many more songs.
I must find someone who knows me, who has seen others like me.
"Unicorn". Old French, "unicorne". Latin, "unicornis".
Literally, one horned: "unus", one, and "cornu", a horn.
A fabulous animal resembling a horse with one horn.
Visible only to those who search and trust, and generally mistaken
for a white mare.
Unicorn.
Oh, you do know me!
Please, all I want to know is if you've seen other unicorns like me,
somewhere in the world.
See you later, alligator! Close cover before striking!
Butterfly, have you seen the others? Where have they gone?
Tell me which way I must go to find them!
No, no, listen. Don't listen to me, listen.
You can find the others if you are brave.
They passed down all the roads long ago, and the Red Bull ran close
behind them and covered their footprints.
Red Bull? What is the Red Bull?
Hold tight. Hold tight. Hold tight, hold tight.
His firstling bull has majesty,
and his horns are the horns of a wild ox.
With them, he shall push the unicorns, all of them, to the ends of
the earth.
Listen, listen, listen quickly!
I am listening! Where are the other unicorns, and what is the Red
Bull?
Listen, listen!
The king is in the counting house, counting out, counting out,
counting...
It's you or me, moth! Hand to hand to hand to hand to hand to hand...
He said I could find the other unicorns. But where? Or was the story
of the Red Bull just another of his songs?
Oh, I could never leave this forest. But I must know if I am the only
unicorn left in the world.
Suppose they are hiding together, somewhere far away?
What if they're waiting for me, in need of my help?
They passed down all the roads long ago, and the Red Bull ran close
behind them and covered their footprints.
I must go quickly, and come back as soon as I can.
You can find the others if you are brave.
Well, hello there, little one! Hello there, my dear!
And just who might you belong to?
A pretty little thing like you?
Come on now, good girl!
Good Bessie.
Curry you up, clean you off, you'll be the prettiest old mare
anywhere.
Mare? Mare?! I, a horse?
Is that what you take me for? Is that what you see?
So, so, easy, easy, good girl.
What a pretty sight you are!
Feed you up, take you to the fair.
Come on, horse!
A horse, am I? A horse, indeed!
Now there's a horse!
My foot must have slipped.
I had forgotten that men cannot see unicorns.
If men no longer know what they are looking at, there may well be
other unicorns in the world yet, unknown and glad of it.
Horizon rising up to meet the purple dawn,
Dust demon screaming, bring an eagle to lead me on.
For in my heart, I carry such a heavy load.
Here I am, on man's road.
Walking man's road...
Walking man's road...
I'm hungry, weary, but I cannot lay me down.
The rain calls, dreary, but there's no shelter I have found.
It will be a long time till I find my abode,
Here I am, on man's road.
Walking man's road...
Walking man's road...
Well.
Well, bless my old husk of a heart.
And here I thought I'd seen the last of them.
Here, you two!
If he knew...
But I don't think I'll tell him.
He'll think it's a horse for sure.
Some wizard I hired.
Now just what in hell was that you stopped for?
What do you think it is, Rukh?
What do you see lying there?
Dead horse.
You're a fool!
But I knew that.
What about you, wizard?
What do you see with your sorcerer's sight?
Answer me, you juggler!
I - I see a horse.
Just - just a white mare.
I thought so. All right. It's a white mare.
I want her for the carnival. The last cage is empty.
We'll need rope.
The rope that could hold that mare has not been woven.
We'll make do with cold iron bars.
Oh, she's waking!
I'll cast a sleep on her!
Skagribbitch! Kastamangya! Nitchai! Nitchaul!
Now cage her. She'll sleep till sunrise.
This here is the manticore. Man's head, lion's body, tail of a
scorpion.
Creatures of night, brought to light!
Here is the dragon.
Breathes fire now and then - mostly at people who poke it, little boy.
Its inside is an inferno, but its skin is so cold it burns!
Speaks seventeen languages badly, and is subject to gout.
Creatures of night, brought to light!
The satyr.
Ladies, keep back!
I shouldn't be here. But quickly, tell me what you see.
Don't be afraid. Look at your fellow legends and tell me what you see.
What he calls a manticore looks to be no more than a shabby,
toothless lion.
And she has them believing that poor old ape with a twisted foot is a
satyr!
Illusions! Deceptions! Mirages!
Your Mommy Fortuna cannot truly change things!
That's true; she can only disguise. And only for those eager to
believe whatever comes easiest.
The Midgard Serpent.
It's got the whole world in its coils.
No, she can't turn cream into butter.
But she can make a lion look like a manticore to eyes that want to
see a manticore.
Just as she'd put a false horn on a real unicorn to make them see the
unicorn.
I know you. If I were blind I would know who you are.
Who are you?
I am called Schmendrick, the magician. You wouldn't have heard of me.
I entertain the sightseers as they gather for the show.
It's not much of a job for a real magician, but I've had worse.
That one is real. That is the harpy Celaeno.
Yes. The old woman caught her by chance, asleep, just as she took you.
Oh, she should never have meddled with a real harpy, or a real
unicorn for that matter, because the truth melts her magic, always.
She's going to free herself very soon now, and she must not catch you
still caged.
Go on, get away from there! You know what she told you!
Don't be afraid! Schmendrick is with you! Do nothing till you hear
from me!
The unicorn.
A unicorn!
I don't care how many damn spells you've got on her. Get rid of that
harpy!
I thinks about it all the time - what she's going to do to us!
Get rid of her, Mommy!
Fool, be still!
No other witch in the world holds a harpy captive, and none ever will.
I choose to keep her! I can turn her into wind if she escapes, or
snow!
Or into seven notes of music!
She's breaking through!
No. Not yet. Not yet. You're mine. If you kill me, you're still mine.
The harpy's as real as you are, and just as immortal.
And she was just as easy to capture, if you want to know.
Do not boast, old woman. Your death sits in that cage and she hears
you.
Oh, she'll kill me one day or another, but she will remember forever
that I caught her, that I held her prisoner.
So there's my immortality, eh?
Now, you were out on the road hunting for your own death, and I know
where it awaits you. I know him, that one.
Do you speak of the Red Bull? Tell me if you do, and where he is, if
you know!
The Red Bull of King Haggard. So you know of the Bull.
Well, he'll not have you. You belong to me.
You know better. Keep your poor shadows if you will, but let me go.
And - let her go.
I cannot see her caged.
She is real, like me. We are two sides of the same magic. Let her go.
I'd quit show business first!
Do you think I don't know what the true witchery is,
just because I do what I do?
There's not a witch in the world hasn't laughed
at Mommy Fortuna and her homemade horrors -
but there's not one of them who would have dared!
The harpy and me - we are not for you.
Who are you for then?
Do you think those fools knew you without any help from me?
No! I had to give you a horn they could see!
These days it takes a cheap carnival trick to make folks recognize a
real unicorn.
But the Red Bull will know you when he sees you; so you are safer
here.
You should thank me for protecting you.
Schmendrick is with you!
I'm sorry, but I couldn't get away any sooner.
There has never been a spell on me before. There has never been a
world in which I was not known.
Oh, I know exactly how you feel.
It's a very rare person who is taken for what he truly is.
Will you help me?
If not you, no one. You're my last chance.
Can you truly set me free?
Mommy Fortuna doesn't think so.
She sees me as a clumsy fraud, a trickster.
But I am Schmendrick the Magician! - the last of the red-hot swamis!
And I too am real, like you, like her. Yes, I will help you.
Where is the other man?
Rukh? Oh, don't worry about him.
I asked him a riddle, and it always takes that lout all night to
solve riddles.
And now...
Shara sineverel morlin sudai! Suni numira eddi subai!
I-I'm sorry, I would have like that to be the spell that freed you.
That's, uh, that's okay. Next one. Well, let's - try this one. Okay.
Urchulis sulai esumina gaminajo!
This is a super-spell.
Tha bars are now as brittle as old cheese, which I crumble and
scatter, so!
Whoouch!
Whoa, I must have gotten the accent wrong. It comes and it goes.
Try again. Once more. There's very little time left. Hurry!
Stop the bars!
No, no, [uh, serenin perenin] - ugh!
I dare no more. The next time, I might not be able to-
Try again. The spell was wrong, but there was true magic in it. Try
again!
My dear, you deserve the services of a great wizard, but I'm afraid
you'll have to be glad of the aid of a second-rate pickpocket.
Some magician! Some magician!
Ah, turn blue.
Hurry!
Step down, lady! You are free!
Okay, Schmendrick, I give up. Why is a raven like a writing desk?
The cage. You have taken my keys.
Why, you thin thief.
She'll string you on barbed wire to make a necklace for the harpy!
Run!
You pile of stones! I'll set all your toenails growing in when you
mess with me!
Some magician. You couldn't turn cream into cheese, you Schmendrick
you!
No, she'll kill you! Run, she'll kill you if you set her free!
Set me free. We are sisters, you and I.
Not alone! You never could have freed yourselves alone! I held you!
Run, run, run, run away from here, now!
No. Come with me. Come with me.
Don't look back, and don't run.
You must never run from anything immortal, it attracts their
attention.
Oh, that poor old woman - I didn't want her to - I didn't know -
She chose her death long ago. It was the fate she wanted.
And you, you have no regrets, as I do?
I can never regret. I can feel sorrow, but it's not the same thing.
Where will you go now?
I am looking for others like me. Have you seen them, magician?
No, I've never seen anyone like you. Not while I was awake, anyway.
A butterfly told me of a Red Bull, who pushed all the other unicorns
to the ends of the earth.
And Mommy Fortuna spoke of a King Haggard.
So I'm going where they are, to learn whatever they know.
Take me with you, for luck, for laughs, for the unknown.
You may come with me if you like, though I wish you'd asked for some
other reward for having freed me.
Well, I thought about it, but you could never have granted my true
wish.
No. I cannot turn you into something you are not.
I cannot turn you into a true magician.
That's all right, don't worry about it.
I'm not.
What do you know of King Haggard?
I have heard that he's an old man who rules over barren country by
the sea.
Some say that Haggard's land was green and soft once, before he came,
but the minute he touched it, it became hard and grey.
Tell me about the Red Bull.
The Red Bull?
I've heard too many tales, to tell you the truth.
I've heard - I've heard that the Bull is real, that the Bull is a
ghost.
Sorry.
I've heard that the Red Bull protects Haggard or else that he keeps
him a prisoner in his own castle - there are so many stories.
They passed down all the roads long ago, and the Red Bull ran close
behind them and covered their footprints.
Want one?
How much further is it?
This is the edge of Haggard's kingdom.
It's very, very dangerous country.
Mommy Fortuna never came within miles of here.
Listen!
Oh, oh, I was afraid of that.
Run, swiftly, hide yourself! We'll find each other later!
Why? Who are they?
Outlaws!
Whoa! Well, what have we here?
Hi, lads! Mind your heads now! It's raining ninnies!
Rat soup. Again rat soup.
At least she could use a different rat. The third night, anyway.
Put me down, you fool!
Aye, lad, quiet there. You're for Captain Cully himself, you are.
Well, Jack Jingly! And who is it you bring us, comrade or captive?
I dunno what he is maself.
What happened, Cully?
We were out looking for likely travelers, like always.
Add some more water to the soup, love! There's company!
I'll not have it, Cully!
Not another mouth to feed! The soup's no thicker than sweat as it is!
My love, where's your greenwood hospitality?
And who's this long lout?
I don't like the look of him. Slit his wizard.
I wouldn't do that, because I am Schmendrick the Magician!
And you, sir, you must be the famous Captain Cully, boldest of the
bold and freest of the free!
That I am.
He's guessing, Cully, gut him, before he does you the way the last
one did!
Well, that's only Molly Grue's way.
But she has a good heart, a good heart.
Off with you.
And this lady, don't tell me, she must be your faithful and beautiful
companion.
Maybe he does know.
Yes, splendid woman.
You are welcome here, sorceror.
Come to the fire and tell me what you've heard of dashing Captain
Cully and his band of freemen. Have a taco.
You're a lucky guest this evening, magician.
My minstrel, Willy Gentle, here, was just about to inspire us by
singing one of the adventures of bold Captain Cully and his men.
Nay, Willy! Not that thing again!
Willy! Sing us a true song! Sing us one about Robin Hood!
There is no Robin Hood! Robin Hood is a myth!
Magic, do as you will.
Magic, magic, do as you will.
And now, lads, with that out of the way -
Look! Oh, look there!
Sir, madam, I welcome you to my domain! My name is Captain Cully, of
the greenwood!
Oh, Robin! And Marion!
Friar Tuck! That's Friar Tuck there! Will Scarlett...
What is this? This is not happening!
Robin Hood is a myth! We are the reality!
Magic is magic, but the truth is us! Right?
Robin! Mr. Hood, sir! Little John! Will! Wait for me! Robin! Marion!
Wait! Wait for me! Marion!
It worked! It worked! I said "Magic, do as you will", and it worked!
That was a dangerous diversion, Sir Sorceror.
He's no ordinary hedge wizard, Cully.
I don't know what he is, ta tell you the truth.
Tie him up, and do you guard him tonight, Cully.
And in the morning, we'll see what's to be done with a wizard who can
call up Robin Hood!
Should be worth something, eh, Cully?
Yes indeed! We'll sell him! We'll both be gentlemen of leisure in a
month's time!
I don't even care!
Gotonius basni varsinisn basti gumtina crosti stormily hasti!
Oh. Oh. Oh, I love you.
I love you. Love love love love love love love love love.
Oh, what have I done?
Always, always.
Faithfulness beyond any man's deserving.
I will keep the color in your eyes when no other in the world
remembers your name.
There is no immortality but a tree's love.
Oh, no, I'm engaged to a Douglas fir. Help, unicorn, where are you?!
Ooh, galls and fireblight! She shall never have you, the hussy! We
will perish together!
Did you see me? Were you watching, did - did you see what I made?
Yes. It was true magic.
Yeah. It's gone now, but I-I had it. It had me, but it's gone. I-I
couldn't hold it.
Leaving us so early, magician?
No. Can it truly be?
Where have you been? Where have you been?
Damn you, where have you been?!
Don't you talk to her that way!
I am here now.
Oh? And where were you twenty years ago, ten years ago?
Where were you when I was new?
When I was one of those innocent, young maidens you always come to?
How dare you, how dare you come to me now, when I am this?
Can you really see her? Do you really know what she is?
If you had been waiting to see a unicorn as long as I have...
She's the last unicorn in the world.
It would be the last unicorn in the wourld that came to Molly Grue.
It's all right. I forgive you.
Well, it's time for us to go now.
I'm ready.
You can't come with us! We're on a quest!
Can't I? Ask her.
Never! I, Schmendrick the Magician, forbid it!
And be wary of wousing a wizard's wrath - rousing a rizard's - rou -
Be wary of making a-a magician angry! If I chose I could turn you
into a frog -
I should laugh myself sick. Have sense, man.
What were you going to do with the last unicorn in the world - keep
her in a cage?
Oh, you don't even know where we're going!
Do you think it matters to me?
We are journeying to King Haggard's country to find the Red Bull!
Well, you're going the wrong way.
I'm sorry, but you were going the wrong way, magician.
Well, it was a shortcut.
Haggard's fortress. We'll be there tomorrow if we walk all night.
Where does King Haggard keep the Red Bull?
I have heard that he roams at night and lies up by day in a great
cavern beneath the castle - but we'll know soon enough.
Moon rising, disguising
Lonely streets in gay display
The stars fade, the nightshade
Closing makes the world afraid.
It waits in silence for the sky to explode.
Here I am, on man's road.
Walking man's road...
Schmendrick, the light!
Do something!
He's driving her! He can't want to kill her
or-or he would have done it by now!
He's driving her the way he drove the others - to the castle, to King
Haggard.
Please! Please do something!
What can I do? Do you think the Red Bull likes card tricks?
If I could I'd change her into some other creature, some beast too
humble for the Bull to be concerned with.
But that would take a real magician, with real magic - and I can't
pretend any more.
But you do. You have magic.
Maybe you can't find it, but it's there.
You called Robin Hood, and there is no Robin Hood.
You have all the power you need, if you dare to look for it.
Please! It's not fair!
Run! Run, now! Run!
Schmendrick!
Magic, magic, do as you will.
What have you done?
What have you done? What have you done?!
What do you mean, what have I done?
Only saved her from the Red Bull by magic, that's all I've done!
By magic! By my own true magic!
Doubtless you are wondering how I plan to return her to her proper
shape. Wonder not.
The power will come to me whenever I need it. And one day, one day it
will come to me when I call!
You were right! You were right.
I didn't know you meant to turn her into a human girl!
The Red Bull came for a unicorn, so she had to become something else.
The magic chose the shape, not I. I am a bearer! I am a dwelling! I
am a messenger!
You are an idiot! Do you hear me? You lost her! You trapped her in a
human body! She'll go mad!
I can change her back. Don't worry about it. I-I can change her back.
What have you done to me?
Oh, no. Oh, please, no!
You see, I couldn't think of anything else I could do to save you.
What have you done to me? I'm a unicorn! I'm a unicorn!
Don't! Don't you hurt yourself!
Be still! The magic knew what it was doing.
In this shape alone you have some hope of reaching King Haggard and
finding out what has become of the other unicorns.
I wish you had let the Red Bull take me. I wish you had left me to
the harpy!
I can feel this body dying all around me!
But - but it's only for a little while, I promise you!
Soon you'll have your true shape again, forever!
Why not now?
Schmendrick, you can't let her stay like this, you can't possibly!
Why not?
Unless you think you could defeat the Bull if you met him again.
No. And I'm afraid of this human body - more than I was of the Red
Bull - afraid!
A man, and two women, coming here?
The young girl - she looks so strange. She has a newness to her.
Give your names.
I am Schmendrick, the Magician.
This is Molly Grue, my helper, and this, this is - this is...
the Lady Amalthea.
We seek audience with King Haggard.
State your business with King Haggard.
I will, but to King Haggard himself.
No, no, it's all right, don't be afraid. It's just the Bull.
This is King Haggard's throne room.
Throne room? This is a cell. This is a tomb. Take us to King Haggard!
I am King Haggard. This is Prince Lir, my son.
Hi. Glad to meet you.
What is your concern with me?
We seek, Sire, to enter your service.
I need no servants.
Oh, but surely, Sire, a magician, a fine cook, a -
You are losing my interest, and that is very dangerous.
My "court" consists of four men-at-arms.
Four? But the pleasures of the court, Sire, the music, the talk, the
hunts and the balls and the great feasts -
They are nothing to me. I have known them all, and they have not made
me happy.
I will keep nothing near me that does not make me happy!
I also keep one magician.
Oh, a magician, huh? What's his name?
He is called Mabruk. He is known in his trade as "the magician's
magician".
I can see no reason at all to replace him with some vagrant,
nameless, clownish -
I can. He doesn't, this marvelous Mabruk, doesn't make you happy.
Molly, be still.
And how would you know?
Well, just look at you!
Molly!
Did you hear that, Mabruk?
What does your majesty wish of me?
Schmendrick, my dear boy, how nice to see you!
He has come to take your place. He is now my royal magician.
See?
Shhh!
The legendary Schmendrick? "The Runeless Wonder?"
I realize your majesty is a great collector of - oddities, but-
The woman is right. A master magician has not made me happy.
I will see what an incompetent one can do. You may go, Mabruk.
I am not packed off as easily as that!
Come on, old man. I'll write you a reference.
Haggard, I would not be you for all the world!
You have let your doom in by the front door, but it will not depart
that way!
Farewell, poor Haggard! Farewell...
Don't!
I will not touch you. What are you looking at?
The sea.
Ah, yes. The sea is always good.
There is nothing that I can look at for very long, except the sea.
What is the matter with your eyes? Why can I not see myself in your
eyes?
Who is she?!
Oh, your majesty, the Lady Amalthea is my niece -
I want to know who she is!
Father, what difference does it make? She's here!
For once, you are right. She is here. They are all here.
And whether they mean my doom or not, I will look at them for a while.
You may come and go as you please. My secrets guard themselves.
Will yours do the same?
Say, I know where there's some cloth, fine satin.
We could make a dress.
Please, lady, let me help you. What can I do for you? Trust me!
In the sea,
The fish have learned to fly,
On a moonlit night,
On wings of silver,
As the enchanted stars
Sail serenely by.
Do they know
Where do unicorns go?
Where winged horses fly?
Narwhals lost at sea
And never seen again.
Go, go and ask the magpie,
"Where do unicorns go?"
In the trees,
The birds have learned to speak,
Many-colored,
They keep their secrets
In a parade of clouds
Playing hide and seek.
Do they know,
Where do unicorns go?
Where winged horses fly?
Narwhals lost at sea,
And never seen again.
Does myth and mystery lie
Where the unicorns go?
Ow. Mm. And then, she looked at me, and I was sorry I had killed the
thing.
Sorry for killing a dragon. Imagine - Ow!
Cut away from yourself, not toward.
You know, your highness, I really think you should try something else.
But what's left on earth that I haven't tried?
Giants, ogres, black knights, terrible tasks, fatal riddles!
Molly, for her sake I've become a hero, but my great deeds mean
nothing to her!
Then perhaps the Lady Amalthea is not to be won by great deeds!
Who is she, Molly? Where does she come from?
I don't know any more about her than I did the first day she came
here.
Your highness-
Except that I wish to serve her, as you do, to help her find whatever
she has come here to find.
I wish to be whatever she has most need of.
Will you tell her so?
I think if you told her yourself-
But she never speaks to me, Molly! Not a word, not a word in all this
time!
You are cruel to him.
You might give him a gentle word, at the very least. He only wishes
you to think of him.
Molly?
Who am I? Why am I here?
What is it that I am seeking in this strange place, day after day?
I-I knew a moment ago, but I-I have forgotten.
The unicorns. If you are not the last...
Once, I can't remember,
I was long ago,
Someone strange,
I was innocent and wise,
And full of pain.
Now that I'm a woman,
Everything is strange.
I must go to him.
I must face the Bull again and discover what he has done with them,
before I forget myself forever.
But I don't know where to find him. And I'm lonely.
Once, when I was searching
Somewhere out of reach,
Far away,
In a place I could not find
Or heart obey,
Now that I'm a woman,
Everything has changed,
Everything has changed,
Everything has changed.
Schmendrick will find a way down to the Red Bull. He has been
searching every day.
I hope for no help from him. He's no magician now, but the king's
poor clown.
He's doing it for you!
He plays the fool for Haggard, trying to divert him from wondering
what you are.
You do wrong to mock him.
Forgive me.
My lady!
The Bull be going out.
He goes out every sundown to hunt for the strange white beast that
escaped him.
You know that perfectly well, so don't be stupid.
Har-har. So that be a unicorn! She is very beautiful.
How do you know she's a unicorn?
No cat out of its first fur can ever be deceived by appearances.
Unlike human beings, who seems to enjoy it.
Ye have very little time.
Soon there'll be a human woman in that body and no unicorn at all
ever again.
It may be that she'll marry the good prince, who loves her.
Oh. Oh, purr, purr. Do that. Yes. That be nice.
No. No, that cannot be. She is the last.
Well, then, she must do what she came to do. She must take the king's
way down to the Red Bull.
Is there a way? Tell me the way. Tell me where we must go!
Avast! Hark ye closely, mum.
When the wine drinks itself, when the skull speaks, when the clock
strikes the right time.
Only then will you find the tunnel that leads to the Red Bull's lair,
har har.
There be a trick to it, of course.
Why won't you help me? Why must you always speak in riddles?
Because I be what I be.
I would tell you what you want to know if I could, mum, but I be a
cat, and no cat anywhere ever gave anyone a straight answer, har har.
I can't do this very much longer. He had me juggling teacups for him
all night long.
Teacups! With tea in them!
Schmendrick, I didn't tell you. I found the skull!
The one the cat was talking about. It's up on a pillar in the Great
Hall. And the clock -
Molly, he knows. King Haggard knows what Lady Amalthea is, I'm sure
of it.
What can we do?
Molly?
I've practically got the whole poem now, if you wanted to look at it.
Oh! Yes, of course, your highness. Whatever you like.
The lift of longing, the crash of loss, the bitterness of - cross?
Boss? Moss? Damn!
Good evening, my lady.
Who are you?
I'm Lir. Don't you know me? I'm Lir.
Lir. Prince Lir.
You were dreaming, my lady.
Well, I'm always dreaming, even when I'm awake.
It is never finished. I-I will not trouble you, my lord prince.
Trouble me! Please, trouble me!
I would court you with more grace if I knew how.
I wish you wanted something with me.
Drown out my dreams. Keep me from remembering
- whatever wants me to remember it.
I've had time to write a book about
The way you act and look -
I haven't got a paragraph.
Words are always getting in my way,
Anyway, I love you,
That's all I have to tell you,
That's all I've got to say.
And now, I'd like to make a speech about
The love that touches each,
But, stumbling, I would make you laugh.
I feel as though my tongue were made of clay,
Anyway, I love you,
That's all I have to tell you.
I'm not a man of poetry,
Music isn't one with me,
It runs from me,
Runs from me.
- And I would like to write a symphony...
- Once, when I was searching...
- I lost the melody.
- Somewhere out of reach, far away,
Alas, I only finished half.
And finish I suppose I never may,
- In a place I could not find, or heart obey.
- Anyway, I love you.
That's all I have to tell you.
Now that I'm a woman,
That's all I've got to say.
Now I know the way.
That's all I've got to say.
Now I know the way.
That's all I've got to say.
Great. Just what I need. Riddles.
When the wine drinks itself, when the skull speaks,
when the clock strikes the right time.
As if I didn't have enough troubles. I wonder what time it is.
Well, of course you're of noble birth; anybody can see that.
I mean, you can't really be that ridiculous magician's niece.
That's out of the question.
Your majesty?
Love is slowing you down, my lady.
I will catch you at last if you love much more.
Look, your son is coming home.
Lir? He's none of mine.
I picked him up on a doorstep where some peasant had left him.
I was thinking that I had never been happy,
and never had a son.
It was pleasant at first, but it died quickly.
There is only one thing that has ever made me happy.
What is that?
Do not mock me.
I know very well what you have come for,
and you know very well that I have them;
try to take them if you can, but do not mock me!
My lord, in all your castle, in all your realm,
there is nothing of yours that I desire.
Good day, your majesty.
I know you!
I almost knew you as soon as I saw you coming on the road; since
then, there is no movement of yours that has not betrayed you!
A pace, a glance, a turn of the head, the flash of your throat as you
breathe, even your way of standing perfectly still, they were all my spies!
You made me wonder for a while. But your time is done.
The tide is turning. Come and see. Come here.
There. There they are. There they are! They are mine! They belong to
me!
The Red Bull gathered them for me one by one, and I bade him drive
each one into the sea!
Now, they live there.
And every tide carries them within an easy step of the land, but they
dare not come out of the water!
They are afraid of the Red Bull.
I like to watch them. They fill me with joy.
The first time I felt it I thought I was going to die.
I said to the Red Bull,
"I must have them. I must have all of them, all there are, for
nothing makes me happy, but their shining, and their grace."
So the Red Bull caught them.
Each time I see the unicorns, my unicorns, it is like that morning in
the woods, and I am truly young, in spite of myself!
You are the last.
My lord, I-I do not understand. I see nothing at all in the water!
Do you still deny yourself?
Do you dare still pretend to be human?
I'll hurl you down to the others with my own hands if you dare deny
yourself!
What are you saying?!
It must be so; I cannot be mistaken. Yet - your eyes.
Your eyes have become empty, as Lir's - as any eyes that - never saw
unicorns.
It makes no difference. I can wait. The end will be the same. I can
wait.
He is mad! Mad!
Shhh, don't, don't, don't. It's all right. We'll find them.
Come on, come to me.
Oh, please, please don't cry.
If you've become human enough to cry then no magic in the world can
change you back.
Just come with me. Shh, don't cry. I promise you we'll find them.
Shut up, you pretentious kneecap! How would you like a punch in the
eye?
Schmendrick, you made it laugh anyway. Maybe that's all you need for
the riddle.
It isn't.
Oh! You can speak! Schmendrick, it worked!
Come on. Ask me how to find the Red Bull. Even Prince Lir doesn't
know the secret way, but I do.
So you do, eh? Answer the riddle, then. Tell us the way.
Say please.
Please.
No. No!
Why not? What kind of game is this?
Oh, it's so nice to have someone to play with!
Try me tomorrow; maybe I'll tell you tomorrow!
But we have no time! We may be too late now!
I have time. I've got time enough for all of us.
Never mind him. Give me the wine; let me see what I can do with the
wine.
Wine?
I couldn't find any. I looked everywhere. I LOOKED!
I thought, if you had some water to start with -
Him? Turn water into wine?
Keep quiet! Let me have it; I'll give it a try.
Now you understand, it's not going to be very good wine.
Vin ordinaire, if that. And it'll be too sweet and...
Well, here goes.
What are you doing? Hey, do it over here, I can't see a thing!
It's weak at best, no nose, no body. Hardly any boquet at all.
Well, that's done it, that's finally done it!
No, wait, hey, don't! Don't do that! Give it to me
if you don't want it, but don't throw it away!
But you're dead! You can't smell wine, can't taste it!
But I remember...
Well, if you should happen to remember the entrance
to the Red Bull's lair as well as you remember wine -
Done! Give me one drink now and I'll tell you
anything you want to know.
You can have all of it - after you tell us the way.
The way is through the clock.
Through that?
You mean, when the clock strikes the right time it opens,
and there's a secret stair?
That clock will never strike the right time.
You just walk through it and the Red Bull is on the other side.
Give me the wine.
Walk through a clock? What am I, a magician?
To meet the Red Bull, you have to walk through time.
A clock isn't time, it's just numbers and springs.
Pay it no mind, just walk right on through. About that wine now...
Ah, that was the real stuff. That was WINE.
You're more of a magician than I thought.
Let's go.
My lady, it's time. We're going to find the others now.
Oh no. No you don't. Not that one.
Unicorn! Unicorn! Haggard! Haggard! Unicorn! Unicorn!
Run!
Haggard! There they go! Down to the Red Bull!
The clock, Haggard! There they go! Unicorn! Unicorn!
Come on. Go on through.
Schmendrick! I don't think-
Go on!
It worked!
Prince Lir!
You would have gone without me?
I would have come back. I don't know why I'm here
or who I am, but I would have come back.
No, you would never have come back.
Never mind all that! Where's Schmendrick?
Where is he? I'll go back myself if you won't!
Schmendrick!
It's all right, it's not deep. How did you know how to get in?
What was there to know? I saw where she had gone and I followed.
Haggard has destroyed the clock.
Now there's no way back and no way out
but through the Red Bull's passage.
And the rest you know. We came here seeking unicorns
and we have possibly found them, at last.
I used to have a dream, over and over, about standing at my window
in the middle of the night and seeing the Bull, the Red Bull
Yes. Driving unicorns into the sea. It was no dream.
Haggard has them all now, drifting in and out on the tide
for his delight, all but one.
That one is the Lady Amalthea.
Unicorn, mermaid, sorceress, no name you would give her
would surprise or frighten me.
I love whom I love.
Well, that's a very nice sentiment.
But when I change her back into her true self-
I love whom I love.
I heard what you said. I will go no further.
There's no choice. We have to go on.
Don't let him change me.
The Red Bull has no care for human beings.
We may walk out past him and get away.
If we do that, all the unicorns in the world will remain
prisoner forever except one, and she will grow old and die.
Everything dies. I want to die when you die.
I'm no unicorn, no magical creature!
I'm human, and I love you.
Don't let him!
Lir, I will not love you when I am a unicorn.
Amalthea, don't.
Then let the quest end here. I don't think
I could change her back even if you wished it.
Marry the prince and live happily ever after.
Yes. That is my wish.
No. Lady, I am a hero, and heroes know that things
must happen when it is time for them to happen.
A quest may not simply be abandoned.
Unicorns may go unrescued for a long time, but not forever.
The happy ending cannot come in the middle of the story.
But what if there isn't a happy ending at all?
There are no happy endings, because nothing ends.
Schmendrick, let her stay the way she is. Let her be.
That's not in the story. Lir knows that, and so does she.
You don't care!
You don't care what happens to her, or to the others,
just so you become a real magician at last.
You don't care!
I wish I didn't! I wish to God I didn't care about anything
but my magic! But I do! I do.
Schmendrick!
Molly, he knows! He knows!
My ankle! Help!
Amalthea!
Don't move!
She'll be killed!
Agu coganu mutariti copona! Copona!
Lir!
Amalthea!
Look!
Do something! You have the power! I will kill you
if you don't do something!
I cannot! Not all the magic in the world can help her now.
Then what is magic for? What is the use of wizardry,
if it cannot even save a unicorn?
That's what heroes are for.
Of course, that's exactly what heroes are for.
No!
She's attacking!
She's fighting back!
The last! I knew you were the last!
Oh, you stayed. You stayed.
Father? Father, I had that same dream...
No. No, I was dead!
I remember you. I remember.
I will miss you. I never had any friends before.
We will come back.
I wish I could see her just once more,
to - to tell her all that's in my heart.
She will never know what I really meant to say.
She will remember your heart when men
are fairy tales in books written by rabbits.
Of all unicorns, she is the only one who knows
what regret is - and love.
You are a true wizard now, as you always wished.
Does it make you happy?
Well, men don't always know when they're happy,
but I-I think so. And you?
I am a little afraid to go home.
I have been mortal, and some part of me is mortal yet.
I am no longer like the others;
for no unicorn was ever born who could regret.
But now I do. I regret.
I am sorry, I have done you evil and I cannot undo it.
No. Unicorns are in the world again.
No sorrow will live in me as long as that joy - save one,
and I thank you for that part too.
Farewell, good magician. I will try to go home.
I'm Alive!
I'm Alive!
When the last moon is cast over the last star of morning,
And the future has passed without even a last desperate warning,
Then look into the stars, where through the clouds a path is torn,
Look and see her, how she sparkles, it's the last unicorn!
I'm Alive!
I'm Alive!
Script: Daniel Orner <omegaonyx@geocities.com
Timing: Dmitry Vasiliev <dvvx2@mail.ru>
