




Mary Dinkle's eyes were the colour of muddy puddles,
her birthmark the colour of poo.
lt was Saturday afternoon and she was bored.
Mary wished she had a friend to play piggybacks with.

Mary's mood-ring, which she'd found in a cereal box,
was grey, which according to the chart meant she was either pensive,
unconsciously ambitious, or hungry.
Her only friends were The Noblets, from her favourite cartoon.
They weren't the real ones you bought in the shops,
but fake ones she had to make herself from shells, gumnuts,
pompoms and chicken bones
salvaged from Friday night's takeaway.
She had to make all her own toys and her favourite were shrinkies;
potato-chip packets that she had shrunk in the oven.
Mary's father, Noel Keith Dinkle,
worked in a factory attaching the strings to teabags.
At show-n-tell, Mary told the class
he could get as many free tea-bags as he wanted!
Her favourite tea-bag was Earl Grey.
She loved saying Earl Grey, and would like...
one day to marry someone called, Earl Grey.
They would live in a castle in Scotland, have nine babies,
two ducks and a dog called Kevin.
Noel's hobby was to sit in his shed and drink Baileys lrish Cream,
and stuff birds he'd found on the side of the freeway.
Mary wished he would spend more time with her,
and less with his dead friends.
She also wished she had some brothers and sisters.
Her mother had told her she was an 'accident'.
How could someone be an accident?
Grand-Poppy Ralph had told her Babies were deliberate,
and found by dads at the bottom of their beer.

Grand-Poppy Ralph had smelt like pickled onions,
and had been a member of the Frankston lce Breakers for fifty-one years!
They swam in winter to feel alive.
Grand-Poppy Ralph had said it made his nipples erect!
He'd died the year before, aged 7 4,
and his best mate Ken had recited a poem in his honour.
Born in a barn in the hills of Boronia,
Ralph lived a long life, then died of pneumonia.
Mary missed him,
and often wondered why he had drunk ammonia?
A lot of things puzzled Mary...
... especially her mother ... Vera Lorraine Dinkle.
To Mary, Vera always seemed wobbly.
Vera liked listening to the cricket while baking
and her main ingredient was always sherry.
She told Mary it was a type of tea for grown-ups that needed constant 'testing'.

Mary thought her mother 'tested' the sherry, way-toomuch.
Mary also couldn't understand why Vera was always 'borrowing'.
Yesterday, she borrowed some fish fingers from aisle six.
She told Mary she put things up her dress to save on plastic bags.
Vera was indeed a complicated soul.
Mary stopped day-dreaming and went and fetched her pet rooster from the rain.
Her father had found the rooster on the side of the freeway. After it had fallen off the back of a slaughter truck.
She named him ... Ethel.
lt was time to watch The Noblets.
She adored The Noblets because everyone was brown,
lived in a teapot
... and had oodles of friends.
There was nothing nicer, Mary thought to herself, than the smell of a wet rooster...
... the sound of rain on the roof and the taste of sweetened
condensed milk straight from the can
while watching your favourite cartoon.


Meanwhile, a man called Max Horowitz, also watched The Noblets.
Max's small television had picture but no sound;
his big television sound but no picture.
He was forty-four and liked The Noblets
because they lived in a delineated
and articulated social structure with constant adherent conformity ...
... and also, because they had oodles of friends.
Max had trouble sleeping and had spent the night
watching television and catching fish food.
He noted to himself it was the sixth fly he'd caught this evening ...
He wondered if he should go to bed and count sheep or ...
... have one more chocolate hot-dog?
He thought he'd try both.
But it didn't work.
lt had been six hours and twelve minutes since Henry the eighth had passed away.
And Henry's death had thrown Max's life into disarray.
lt had become asymmetrical, and the sooner he got a ...
... new fish the better.
Tomorrow he would go to the pet store and get another Henry.
Henry the Ninth.

Next.
lt was shopping day,
and Mary sat patiently while her mother 'borrowed' some envelopes.
To fill in time she scanned the room
and counted how many things were brown.
There was sticky-tape, rubber-bands,
and a phone book with a picture of a lady standing in a brown lake
with her hand on fire.
People had weird names in America,
Mary Daisy Dinkle thought to herself.
Funny sounding people called Rockefeller and Finklestein.
She wondered what they looked like, how old they were,
and if they were married, wore glasses,
or had found babies in their beer?
Maybe in America people found babies elsewhere.
They drank a lot of cola. Maybe they found them in cans?
But no, they wouldn't fit through the hole.
Mary had an idea! She would write to one of the Americans
and ask where babies came from.
She chose a Mr. M. Horowitz!
Aaaggh, Mrs Dinkle!
Come back here! Vera Dinkle! You come back here!
Dear Mr. M. Horowitz, my name is Mary ...
... Daisy Dinkle and l am eight years old,
3 months and 9 days.
My favourite colour is brown
and my favourite food is sweetened condensed milk followed closely by chocolate.
l have a rooster called Ethel that looks like this.
He doesn't lay eggs but will one day.
My mother likes smoking, cricket and sherry,
and my father likes playing in his shed with dead birds.
Where do babies come from in America?
Do they come from cola cans?
ln Australia they're found in beer glasses.
Here is a drawing of me.
l can't draw ears proper, but am good at teeth.
lt would be great if you could write back and be my friend.
Yours sincerealy, Mary Daisy Dinkle.
P.S. l hope you like the chocolate bar l'm also sending.
lt's called a Cherry-Ripe.
Good-bye letter! Don't forget to write!
Max hated Thursdays;
the day of his weekly Overeaters Anonymous meeting...
... and tonight he'd felt especially unsettled because ...
...he'd eaten two chocolate hot-dogs on his way there.
Okay class...
Eating chocolate was breaking the rules.

He'd found the night even more unbearable
because of Marjorie Butterworth's strange glances...
Max had trouble understandin non verbal signals.
Flirting was as foreign to him as jogging.
Max found most people, very confusing.
But little did Max realise, his night was about to become even more confusing and cryptic.
He read Mary's letter four times...
... and then did what he normally did, whenever confronted with something new and stressful.
Max's fragile existence had become unsettled.
And after staring out of the window
for eighteen hours he finally made a decision.
Dear Mary Daisy Dinkle, thank you for the letter
which l opened and read at nine seventeen pm.,
after my over-eaters annonamous class.
l am trying to lose weight because my psychiatrist,
Dr. Bernard Hazelhof,
says a healthy body equals a healthy mind.
He says my mind is not that healthy.
Your drawing is an interesting visual portrayal of yourself.
l have never met anyone from Australia.
Firstly, l will answer your question.
Unfortunately, in America, babies are not found in cola cans.
l asked my mother when l was four
and she said they came from eggs laid by Rabbi's.
lf you aren't Jewish, they're laid by Catholic Nuns.
lf you're an atheist, they're laid by ''dirty-lonelyprostitutes''.
So this is where babies come from in America.
l share my home with a fish,
some snails whom l have named after famous scientists ...
A parakeet called Mr. Biscuit...
... and finally a cat called Hal.
Hal is an abbreviation for halitosis, from which he suffers.
He followed me home after a gang of children shot his eye out with a beebee gun.
Do you have a pet kangaroo?
When l was born my father left my mother and me on a kibbutz.
She shot herself with my Uncle's gun when l was six.
Do you like chocolate hotdogs?
l invented the recipe for them and can send it to you.
When l was young
l invented an invisible friend called Mr. Ravioli.
My psychiatrist says l don't need him any more
so he just sits in the corner and reads.
Last week l picked up 128 cigarette butts.
People are always littering in New York.
l do not understand why people break laws.
Butts are bad because they wash out to sea...
...and fish eat them and become nicotine dependent.
l am justjoking, because of course it is impossible
for a cigarette to remain lit underwater.
Also fish do not have pockets to keep cigarette lighters in.
l am 44 years old and have eight tracksuits the same colour and size.
l weigh three hundred and fifty two pounds and am as tall as a six foot tree.
Welcome to the New York Lottery.
l enjoy entering the lottery
and have chosen the same numbers for nine years.
Those numbers are three... One.
Five. Four.
Six. Twenty five.
Nine. Two.
Eleven. Seven.
And twelve. Eight.
Are you a winner...
or a loser?
l have had many differentjobs during my life.
My firstjob was collecting subway tokens...in the subway.
My second job was at Yiddel's Gourmet Kosher Supplies
where l worked at the machine that made pre-packaged Noodle-Kugels.
l was born Jewish and used to believe in God ...
... but have since read many books that have proven God is just a figment of my imagination.
People like to believe in God because it answers complicated questions like
where did the universe come from?
Do worms go to heaven?
And why do old ladies have blue hair?
Even though l am an atheist,
l still wear my yalmuhka as it keeps my brain warm.
My third job was for a company that printed ... ... logos on novility items.
l worked at the frisbee printing machine.
A frisbee is a circular plastic disc that people throw at each other.
lt is like a boomerang,
but it does not come back.
My fourth job was when l was called up forjury duty.
l didn't get paid much but got free cookies and coffee.
Jurors are outstanding members of the community who haven't murdered anyone.
l made it to the short-list for a trial where a man killed all his friends at his own surprise birthday party.
Unfortunately l didn't get selected
because they found out l'd been a mental patient at one point.
Have you ever been hanggliding?
My fifth job was as a garbage collector.
l got to clean up after litterbugs and didn't have to talk to anybody.
Sometimes l used to pretend l was an inter-galactical robot.
This is 91 1 . Your call has been placed in a queue.
One time the police took me in for questioning ...
... but let me go when they decided l wasn't a threat to anybody ... except myself.
The sixth job l had, was for the United States Army ...
... in the Stationary Supply Department.
Because l am good with numbers l had to work out
how many ballpoint pens the Army needed.
One day they did a security check
and asked whether l was a member of any radical groups.
l told them l was a member of the NEW YORK SClENCE FlCTlON CLUB.
They said this didn't count, but dismissed me anyway.
Fortunately, l did not remember to tell them l was once a communist.
Have you ever been a communist?
Have you ever been attacked by a crow or similar large bird?
When l was nine a crow attacked me on my way to school.

l had to have three stitches and in Spring...
... l now wear a helmet with eyes l have painted on.
People laugh at me when l wear my helmet. l am not sure why?
People often confuse me
but l try not to let them worry me.
New York is a very busy and noisy place.
l would prefer to live somewhere much quieter ...
... like the moon.
l don't like crowds, bright lights,
sudden noises or strong smells.
New York has all these, especially the smells.
l often wear nose and ear plugs when l go outside;
it helps keep me calm.
l find humans interesting but l have trouble understanding them.
l think, however, l will understand and trust you!
You appear very happy and
l think you would smell like a shrimp,
as l know Australia has a lot of shrimps.
Can you speed read?
l have taught myself to read two pages at once;
one eyeball per page.
l have to go now even though
l have not told you about my seventh job in the condom factory.
Write back soon.
Your American friend, Max Jerry Horowitz.
P.S. Please find enclosed a photo from one of those booths.
P.P.S. Thank you for the Cherry-Ripe
and l am glad you like chocolate as much as l do.
l have never eaten sweetened condensed milk but will try some this week.
P.P.P.S. l have never used a condom.
Gey Gezunterheyt! (Yiddish)
Max hoped Mary would write again.
He'd always wanted a friend;
a friend that wasn't invisible, a pet or rubber figurine.
He counted the stars and wondered how many days,
hours and minutes it would take his letter to reach ...
Australia.

Vera was not impressed ...
... not impressed at all.
There was no way this nutcase was going to be her daughter's pen-friend, she thought to herself.
There was enough ugliness in the world.
Mary would be home from school in an hour;
enough time for another cup of ''tea''
and a bit of cricket to soothe her nerves
and dissolve the memory Max's letter from her pickled mind.

Stop!
Wait!
Hey fellas, you got room for one more bag?
Sure Mrs. Dinkle, hop in!
Good one, Kevin.
Come on, Vera. We've got some other bags to pick up.
Mary, is that all the rubbish?
Yep!
Seeya, Toots!
Sweet baby Jesus ...
Even though Max's letter smelt like fish heads and orange peel Mary drank his words
like a bowl of alphabet soup,
and hadn't been this excited
since Grand-Poppy Ralph found a coin up her nose.
She wrote back immediately on some butchers paper she'd stolen from some chops.
Dear Max, l am so excited you've wroted back.
l don't think my parents like you, so from now on, send stuff ...
... to my neighbour...
Len Hislop, at twenty-six Lamington Drive ... ... Mt. Waverley.
He's old with no legs.
They got chewedded off in World War Two...
... when some Japanese peoples kept him in a cage above piranhas.
Piranhas are goldfish that have teeth.
He's scared of outside, which is a disease called homophobia.
He's started giving me fifty cents a week to get his mail.
l'm saving to buy a castle in Scotland
and marry a man called Earl Grey.
Do you get The Noblets in America?
Well my favourite Noblet is Vanity Noblet.
He wants to be everyone's friend; even the boys!
ln your letter you said you had no friends;
well neiver do l.
Yesterday at school, Bernie Clifford weed on my spamsandwich
and called me pooface coz of my birthmark.
l wish l could peel it off like a band-aid.
He also laughed coz l had no buttons.
Ethel'd pecked them off and ...
... Mum couldn't thread a needle coz she'd been testing the sherry.
So she used pegs instead.
When l got home l climbed into my secret place till dinner-time.
The other kids also laugh at my haircut.
Dad has to cut my hair
because mum says real hairdressers sell your hair
to Chinamen who stuff mattresses.
My teacher Mrs. Pendergast, says l should smile more.
l told my mum ... ... and so she drawed a big smile on me.
l don't think Mrs. Pendergast likes me any more.
l better go now, my tears are smudgling my words.
Your friend in Australia, Mary Daisy Dinkle.
P.S. Have you ever been teased? Can you help me?
P.S.S.
l've never been hanggliding before or been a communist ...
... but would love a frisbee and your recipe for chocolate hot-dogs
P.S.S.S.
l'm sending you some Australian chocolate,
a pompom l made,
and a cake called a lamington which l was meant to eat for lunch.
Have you ever been teased?
Mary's letter triggered memories Max had buried deep down in his shoes.Get him. He's going that way.
We've got him cornered now. Hey jew-boy, you're gonna pay. Take this Jew-boy...
Jew-boy...
And as usual, he coped in the only way he knew.
And thirty six chocolate hotdogs later,
and after only two hours sleep...
... Max's melt-down faded away
and an idea popped into his brain.
Dear Mary Daisy Dinkle, thank you for your letter,
chocolate bar, Lamington and pompom.
The chocolate got crushed, so l blended the bits with milk
and ice-cream and now l am drinking it right now!
After much thought l think l have a solution to your teasing.
Tell Bernie Clifford your birthmark is made of chocolate which means
when you get to heaven you will be in charge of all the chocolate.
This is of course a lie.
l do not like lies, but in this case l think it will be of benefit.

l wish l could be in charge of all the chocolate,
but of course l can not because of my atheism.
My neighbour lvy is also an atheist.
She doesn't talk much but makes me very good soup on Sunday nights.
She is partly blind and sometimes l find her hair in my soup.
l do not tell her as Dr. Bernard Hazelhof
says this would be impolite.
Here is a list of what l eat on the other nights.
Mondays - Glick's Potato Knish;
Tuesdays - Yiddel's Noodle - Kugel...
Wednesdays - Captain Salty's Fish-sticks;
Thursdays - Yentl's Cheezy Blintz.
And Fridays - Chicken Nuggets.
On Saturday nights l create my own recipes.
Last week l invented canned spaghetti hamburgers.
Recipes are like mathematical equations.
Dr. Bernard Hazelhof told me you should never weigh more than your refrigerator
and to never eat anything bigger than your head.
l once ate a watermelon bigger than my head;
but not all at once.
Do you have any weight loss suggestions?
My Overeaters Anonymous meetings don't seem to be working
and just make me tense.
lt would be good if there was a ... ... Fat-Fairy.
She would be a bit like the Tooth-Fairy, but would suck out your fat.
lvy says she is only a little bit blind,
but l think she is very blind.
She should get a cane like other vision impaired people.
She could make the end pointy and collect rubbish at the same time.
l think l will write a letter to the Mayor and suggest this.
He will be very impressed.
lvy says she doesn't need a cane because she has a good sense of smell.
She says she could find me with her eyes stapled shut.
She says l smell like licorice and old books.
l think she smells like cough medicine and urine.
l have never told her this as Dr. Bernard Hazelhof
said this would also be impolite.
People often think l am tactless and rude.
l cannot understand how being honest can be... improper?
Maybe this is why l don't have any friends,
of course except for you.
A real friend has been one of my three goals in life.
The other two are to own every Noblet
and a life-time supply of chocolate.

Dr. Bernard Hazelhof says it is good to have goals,
but not stupid ones like mine.
l have now run out of things to tell you.
Please write soon.
Your friend in America, Max Jerry Horovitz.
P.S. Do not worry about not smiling;
my mouth hardly ever smiles
but it does not mean l am not smiling inside my brain.
P.P.S. Please find enclosed... ... a frisbee, some Chocolate Pop Rocks (which you should eat with cola)
and an illustration of a turtle from one of my National Geographics.
P.P.P.S.
 Did you know that turtles can breath through their anuses?
Dear Max ...
... when l told Bernie Clifford l will be in charge of all the chocolate in heaven
and he wouldn't get any, he cried!
l also high-ded some dogs poo in his bit of the sand-pit.
Your advice was great and l have got a job delivering pamphlets
so l can save to come and see you.
l am sad to hear you are fat.
Mum says l am fat too and l am growing up to be a 'heffa',
which l think is a type of cow.
Maybe you should only eat things beginning with the letter of each day.
On Mondays you could only eat milkshakes,
marshmallows and mustard.
For my birthday my mum baked a cake and dad gave me a camera.
l hope you like the photos l've sent.
The first one is of Ethel who ate some tinsel.
The next one is one of myself
after l ate the Chocolate Pop Rocks with the cola like you said.
Next is Len. He's still trying hard not to be afraid of outside
and conquer his homophobia.
The next one is of dad in his shed, ...
and then one of the times l covered mum
while she as asleep in her new stickers that help her stop smoking.
And next when l got my slinky caught in my hair.
Then one of when Sonny diggeded-up his wife Cher.
And finally a photo of my other neighbour,
Damian Popodopolous.
He'sa Greek and smells like lemon dishwashing liquid
and his skin is smooth like the back of a spoon.
Mum says he's a Wog and has a stutter
and can't even say his own surname.
She says you have to hit him on the back of the head to get his words out!
Popodopolous.
l wish he was my boyfriend and we could be in love ... ... and do sexing like Katherine Ramsay
told me behind the bike shed.
She said it's when two peoples go nuddy and rub on each other to make babies.
l told her she's a liar and would go to hell and burn like toast ...
... coz babies really came from beer glasses
and eggs laid by Rabbits, and Nuns and prostertubes
She said ladies get 'knocked up' and bake babies
in their stomachs for two years till they spurt out...
... their vagg-eye-ners with blood and tinned spaghetti.
Have you got a girlfriend MAX, or some wives?
Have you done sexing?
Valentines day is soon
and l want to give DAMlAN a present so he can love me?
Can you explain love and how l can be lovered?
Once again Mary's letter had triggered an anxiety attack.
Max knew nothing about love; it was as foreign to him as scuba-diving
and he'd had an appalling history of getting it all wrong.
One Valentines day, he'd given Zelda Gutnik a gift
he was sure was appropriate.

The only companion that had ever warmed MAX'S bed was his hot water bottle.
Romance and love was a mysterious language he'd given up on.
lf only Mary had asked how a toaster works,
or asked for an explanation of the chaos theory!
lf only there was a mathematical equation for love.
He kept eating....and thinking.

But love was not like MAX'S Rubik's Cube; it could not be solved.
And no matter from what angle he analysed it, the results were negative.
Beat it, creep!
He felt love but couldn't articulate it.
lts logic was as foreign to him as a salad sandwich.
The stars made more sense.
Unit 12, have you responded to the Hubert Street call? Over
The anxiety and stress were too much.
The inscrutability of love finally won
and Max's brain gave in. That's hideous!

He was diagnosed with severe depression and obesity
and spent the next eight months institutionalised and bedridden.
They marinated him in a cocktail of drugs,
and performed the usual therapeutic procedures.
Meanwhile Mary wondered ... and waited.
Maybe MAX'S typewriter had run out of ink
Maybe America had run out of ink.
Maybe his pets had eaten him?
Maybe it was her?
Was she too demanding, too boring, too ugly!
Filled with anger and fusion and self-loathing
Mary tried to erase the memory of her friend... forever.


Max had recovered and life was balanced,
safe and symmetrical ... once again.
But Mary still lingered in his mind.
Half of him wanted to write to her immediately,
the other half didn't want to end up a mental patient again.
At least there was always Mr. Ravioli to be friends with.
He was a much safer option.
He wondered what Mary was doing right now.
But she was far... ... from content,
and struggled on by herself,
saving her money for a rainy day.
Life went on as usual for Max
and even though he opted for order and stability,
misfortune was never far away.
Luckily, his manslaughter charges were dismissed
because he was labelled mentally deficient
and unlikely to have a motive for killing a mime artist ...
... unlike most people.
From then on Max cooled himself differently
and things went back to normal ...
until after his 48th birthday when his numbers finally came up.
... welcome to the New York Lottery. And these are tonight's winning numbers...
Three... five... six...
Nine... eleven...
And twelve.
Max was sensible with his sudden...
... wealth, and had bought a life time supply of chocolate
and the complete Noblet collection.
Two of his life goals had come true...
... but he still had a lot of money,
so decided to give it to lvy,
who was also very sensible.






lvy willed everything to the local cat shelter,
whose owner relocated her kind donation to his bank account,
his wife's new breasts, a Ferrari
and a enough fuel to Mexico.
Despite achieving all his life's goals,
Max still felt incomplete.
Mr. Ravioli just wasn't cutting the mustard any more,
and seemed more interested in his self help books.
Mary had given Max a taste of real friendship and there was just no comparison.
She missed him too ... ... but no longer saved to see him ...
She now saved for a different reason.
One day Mr. Ravioli got up, left and never came back.
Max sought Dr. Hazelhof's advice.
He told Max that true friendship is seen through the heart,
not through the eyes...
... and that it was time he wrote to Mary to reveal his true self,
warts and all.
Max understood.
Dear Mary Daisy Dinkle,
there is something l have to tell you which will explain
why l have not written.
Each time l received one of your letters,
l had a severe anxiety attack.
This is because recently ... ... while l was in a mental institution,
they diagnosed that l have a new thing called Aspergers Syndrome...
... which is a neurobiological, pervasive developmental disability.
l prefer Aspie for short.
l will now list some of the traits of an Aspie.
Number one. l find the world very confusing
and chaotic because my mind is very literal and logical.
Two. l have trouble understanding the expressions on people's faces.
When l was younger l made a book to help me when l was confused.

l still have trouble with some people.
lvy was hard to understand because of her wrinkles,
and because her eyebrows weren't real.
Three. l have bad handwriting, am hypersensitive, clumsy,
and can get very .... concerned.
Four. l like solving problems.
lvy said this is a good thing.
And finally number five. l have trouble expressing my emotions.
Dr. Bernard Hazelhof says my brain is defective,
but one day there will be a cure for my disability.
l do not like it when he says this.
l do not feel disabled, defective,
 or a need to be cured.
l like being an ASPlE.
lt would be like trying to change the colour of my eyes.
There is one thing l wish l could change, however.
l wish l could cry properly.
l squeeze and squeeze but nothing comes out.
l cry when l cut onions, but this does not count.
Anyway, do you like the word cumquat?
lt is a type of fruit.
Do you have a favourite sounding word?
My top five are Ointment, Bumblebee,
Vladivostock, Banana and Testicle.
l also have invented some new words.
Confuzzled, which is a being confused and puzzled at the same time.
Snirt, which is a cross between snow and dirt.
And Smushables,
which are squashed groceries you find at the bottom of the bag.
l have sent a letter to the Oxford dictionary people
asking them to include my words, but have not heard back.
lt is now time for me to go to my Overeaters Anonymous meeting.
There is a woman there called Marjorie Buttersworth who confuzzles me.
She kisses me without my permission
so tonight l have decided to rub onions under my armpits to repel her.
Your friend in America, Max Jerry Horowitz.
P.S. Please find enclosed some chocolate covered ants l found at the deli.
P.P.S. Not much has happened since l last wrote,
except for my manslaughter charges,
lotto win and lvy's death.
Mary was thrilled Max that had finally written
and suddenly she had a fabulous idea!


Mary and Max's friendship was resuscitated,
and her tears were the best gift he'd ever received.
lnside Max's head, his brain was smiling.
Loaded up with bizarre forms of chocolate,
their letters flew thick and fast between the continents.
Max learnt to read Mary's letters with caution
and at the slightest tingle of tension, he would stop,
take his mediation and soothe his nerves.
Each letter he would iron, laminate and file in a special place which also,
soothed his nerves.
He enjoyed answering her questions and solving her puzzles;
like do sheep shrink when it rains?
Why do old men wear their pants so high?
Do gooses get goose-bumps
and why is belly-button lint blue?
Are there Noblets in heaven, and if a taxi goes backwards,
does the driver owe you money?
ln turn, Mary simply enjoyed hearing about Max's fascinating life;
how many people he'd counted littering, ...
... how the latest Henry had died ...
... and new recipes he'd invented for chicken.
Each nourished the other and as Mary grew taller,
Max grew wider;
their friendship becoming stronger than the glue on Mary's Noblets.
Although Max found solace in Mary,
he still found the rest of the world bewildering.
And he couldn't understand
why he was seen as the odd one while everyone else was considered normal.

Humans were endlessly illogical;
why did they throw out food when there were children starving in lndia,
... why did they clear the rainforests when they needed the oxygen,
and why did they create bus timetables when they never ran on time?
He agreed with his favourite physicist
there are only two things infinite;
the universe and man's stupidity.
And for Mary, even though Max filled her with confidence...
Bullseye!
... her world was far from perfect.
The grip of love, had her by the throat.
At 4.59pm on the 8th of the 8th 1988,
Noel Norman Dinkle attached his last string.
And after 40 years and 40 million tea-bags, he retired.
To celebrate, Noel announced he was also retiring from taxidermy,
and taking up metal-detecting instead.
But sadly, it was not a hobby he had for long.

ln his will Noel had left Mary some money,
so she decided to go to university and study disorders of the mind;
yearning to learn more about her friend.
Mary was as popular at university as she was at school.
Damian went there too, aching to be a thespian.
Hey there m-m-Mary!
Hi - hello.
Hey Damian,
your mum's roses look fab!
Oh, ah, th-th-th thanks Mary.
Um, m-m-Mary, can l tell you something?
Sure babe!
Um, um, you've got d-d-d-ddogs poo on your shoe.
Dear Max. l have been such an idiot.
l've wasted all my money on something pointless when l should have been saving to see you.
l know love upsets you so l won't go on about it.
All l want to say is that love is obviously not for me.
l hope you are well and enjoy the chocolate cigarettes l've enclosed.
Love Mary.
You should be ashamed!
Come on, baby. Let's go. -Oh Mom. -l told you never to talk to strangers.
Noel's sudden death had filled Vera with remorse and guilt.
And she coped in the only way she knew.


Dear Max, our wedding day was everything l have ever dreamt
making up for the terrible year l've had.
Although all the guests were Damian's family and friends, l felt very welcome.
Damian's is so perfect; he even made my wedding dress ...
... and for our honeymoon took me to Mykonos -
his favourite island in Greece! l got to ride a donkey...
... and found the perfect gift for Len.
Poor Len, he's still struggling with his agoraphobia.
Damian and l are so similar ...
... he even has his own penfriend who lives on a sheep farm in New Zealand!
M m m... Mary.
Mary was bursting with self esteem ...
... and her confidence was almost unbearable.
At university she shone,
and took it upon herself to cure the world of mental illness.



She did her thesis on Aspergers Syndrome
and used Max as her case study.
Her professors were thoroughly impressed and her writing praised far and wide.
Soon publishers queued to print her unique insight
and by her twenty fifth birthday thousands of copies
were ready to be shipped.
Dear Max.
l am very proud to give you the very first copy of my book about your disability...
... and the hopes we have to one day cure it.
Even more exciting is that l am finally coming to meet
and celebrate with you in one weeks time!
l'm also going to give you half the royalties.
Your loving friend Mary.
PS. Please find enclosed some chocolate coated Swiss almonds.
Max didn't take the news very well...
not very well, at all.
Dear Mary Daisy Dinkle,
l cannot express myself very clearly at this moment
and so l will list my emotions in the order they feel most intense...
... hurt, confuzzleness, betrayal,
discomfort, distress, and wheeziness.
This last one is not really an emotion, but l thought you should know about it anyway.
With her suitcase packed for New York, Mary said goodbye to Damian.
She hadn't been this excited since she'd found a Noblet in the gutter.
But her excitement suddenly dribbled away,
like a chocolate in the sun.




Mary slowly sunk into a puddle of depression,
selfloathing, and cooking sherry.
The only colour left in her life was her beloved Damian;
only an arms length away, but as distant as the moon.
She lost interest in the world and it lost interest in her ...
... as a horrible apparition began to haunt.
She spent her days making pompoms and eating Two Minute Noodles.


Each day with strength and shame,
Mary trudged to the letterbox in hope ...
only to swivel, shrivel, and slink back inside.

My dearest Mary. By the time you read this
l will be on a plane to New Zealand to begin a new life.
You probably haven't even noticed l'd packed my bags.
l have fallen in love with my penfriend, Desmond,
and l am going to live on his sheep farm.
lt's been hard to watch you become a remnant of the person l once loved.
Your research into mental illness has been admirable
but your idealistic pursuit to remedy it has been misguided.
Mary, you have to realise you are not some sort of magic beauty cream
you can smooth on the world to rid it of its wrinkles.
l love you Mary,
but l love Desmond more.
l hope one day your heart will heal and we can be friends.
Yours compassionately, Damian.

Dear Mayor Ridiculani,
on Monday l counted twenty seven people illegally dropping cigarette butts.
l would like to recommend the fine be increased to a minimun of one million dollars
as a stronger deterrent and would be happy...



-Thank you. -Thank you.

Sorry.
Sorry.

Dear Mary,
 please find enclosed my entire Noblet collection
as a sign that l forgive you.
When l received your book the emotions...


Gey Gezunterheyt! (Yiddish)
On the way home, Max sat to count the stars.
He felt complete;
the world was back in balance.

When l was just a little girl
l asked my mother, what will l be
Will l be pretty, will l be rich
Here's what she said to me.
Que Sera, Sera,
Whatever will be, will be
The future's not ours, to see
Que Sera, Sera
Que Sera, Sera,
Whatever will be, will be
The future's not ours, to see
Que Sera, Sera
What will be, will be.
Que Sera, Sera,
LEN had saved the day
and after 45 years he finally conquered his agoraphobia.
Moron!
Dear Mary, please find enclosed...
... my entire Noblet collection as a sign that l forgive you.
When l received your book the emotions inside my brain...
... felt like they were in a tumble dryer,
smashing into each other.
The hurt felt like when l accidentally stapled my lips together.
The reason l forgive you is because you are not perfect;
you are imperfect and so am l.
All humans are imperfect,
even the man outside my apartment who litters.
When l was young l wanted to be anybody but myself.
Dr. Bernard Hazelhof said if l was on a desert island then l would have to
get used to my own company:
just me and the coconuts.
He said l would have to accept myself;
my warts and all.
And that we don't get to choose our warts;
they are a part of us and we have to live with them.
We can however, choose our friends,
and l am glad l have chosen you.

Dr. Bernard Hazelhof also said
that everyone's lives are like a very long sidewalk.
Some are well paved, others, like mine,
have cracks, banana skins, and cigarette butts.
Your sidewalk is like mine,
but probably not as many cracks!
Hopefully one day, our sidewalks will meet
and we can share a can of condensed milk.
You are my best friend,
you are my only friend.
Your American pen-pal, Max Jerry Horowitz.
P.S. l have recently found the perfectjob with a survey company.
All l have to do is eat things and tick boxes.


Max?...
Max?
Max?
Hello?
Max, it's us!
We're here!
Max?
Max had died peacefully that morning,
after finishing his final can of condensed milk.
You are my best friend.
You are my only friend.
He smelt like licorice and old books,
she thought to herself, as tears rolled from her eyes...
... the colour of muddy puddles.




