<i> Timing and subtitles brought to you by Gone with the Shirt Team@ Viki <i></i></i>
Love Me, If You Dare
Episode 6
Lao Zhou, What's going on?
Don't you know?
There's a new director in the marketing department. They are sorting out the new office.
Someone from so high up in the senior management levels. Down here, working next to us.
Why do I have a bad feeling about this?
He should be on the same rank as the senior directors,
the offices of all those policy makers are on the 23rd level. Why is he down here with us?
I heard he is apart of the 'airborne troops' (not in this position by promotion), came all the way down here in order to build his 'amiable' image.
Manager Lin is calling for a meeting!
Jian Yao, Let's go.
Hello everyone, I am Jian Yao. The new business and sales assistant.
Hello, I am Zhou Qin. Just can just call me Zhou (Small Zhou).
You can't call him Zhou (Small Zhou),
He is the senior business and sales manager, your 'elder'. You should call him Lao Zhou. (Old Zhou)
You are in the same post as him, in the future a lot of coordination is needed between you two in your jobs.
So, communicate as much as you can. He is called Xiao Mai (Small mic).
Welcome.
Thank you.
You are very welcome, it is always a pleasure to be at the service of a beautiful girl.
Alright, I sent this week's work plan to your emails.
All the people here expect Miss Jian are experienced, I don't have say more
-Jian...<br> -Jian Yao
Your score on the interview was good. Keep it up
So you are Jian Yao.
Hello, Manager Yan
Why the director is not coming?
The president is talking to him. He will be here soon.
Subtitles by... Gone with the Shirt Team
Welcome Director Bo
Director Bo, have a sit please
This is Director Bo JinYan
We are honoured to work under his lead on 2nd market team, and to expanding and achiving better work.
According to the President, Director Bo is here for the marketing direction and tactics
not for general daily works. So if you have tasks in the future just report it to me, and I will then report to Director Bo
Director Bo, You could have few words to us.
Let me make things more clear, I'm just here for a short term.
You don't have to cotton up with me, and I don't have the energy to deal that
I have my own habit of doing things.
You just need to accommodate my needs. Then everything will be alright.
When I leave, I will give your performance assessments an A.
Director Bo, the hiring process of your secretary is not down.<br> JianYao is the new assistant
She will be your secretary for this period of time
It's alright.
From now on, you are under the direct lead of Director Bo.
Ok.
Subtitles by... Gone with the Shirt Team
Come in with me.
I didn't know that the director is so cocky.
Come to our department to practice.
What a pity for Jian Yao
Explain yourself.
You can't escape the fate of being my assistant.
Bo Jinyan.
Come in.
Mr. Bo, excuse me. Bring it in.
Mr. Bo, where do you want to put the computer?
Put it wherever, as long as it's in my line of sight.
I'll leave first, Mr. Bo.
Don't tell me that there's a case here and that's why you are undercover as a director and had me switch to be your assistant.
I'm delighted than you're finally starting to use your head.
But you're still a little slow to catch on to things.
Bo Jinyan how could you be like this? If you're working on a case, then work on the case. How could you not say a thing and then intrude into my professional life?
Do you know how much effort I put in for this job?
This is the position I wished for in my entire life.
When you work you don't like to be bothered. I also wish that my job is stable.
That nothing useless interferes with my job.
But now look at what you've done. Am I a detective who works for the police force,
or a two-faced white-collar worker?
When you leave, how am I going to interact with my co-workers?
Everyone will say that "that's the undercover police worker."
"Watch your words when you talk to her." Or am I supposed to follow you on your next case and be ready whenever you call?
I thought
that you willingly helped me. For the last case, we worked well together.
Those are two different things! My willingness to help you on that case is one thing.
My professional life and personal life being intruded by you is a different thing.
Your intelligence is well above average, you surely understand this simple principle.
It's time for afternoon tea.
One mocha, one vanilla, which one would you like?
How much is it? Thanks.
What do you mean how much?
What's wrong?
- Did you cry? <br> - No. Nothing's wrong.
Uh...
Then I'll take my leave first.
- Thank you. <br> - You're welcome.
Mocha, thanks.
Take it yourself.
<i> Timing and subtitles brought to you by Gone with the Shirt Team@ Viki <i></i></i>
Actually,
this won't take much of your time.
The last case only took 5 days.
A simple business case isn't very difficult. It won't waste a lot of my time.
Excuse my bluntness, but do you know what you're doing now?
You are selling low-priced goods for higher prices to other places.
When you die,
do you want to tell your children and grandchildren how many sales you have made?
Or do you want to tell them how many lives you saved?
Nonsense. You're the porter.
My work is in the circulation of commodities, I promote economic development.
I'm indispensable.
Okay, Ms. Circulation of Commodities.
Can you take a look at the victim's information yet?
<i> Timing and subtitles brought to you by Gone with the Shirt Team@ Viki <i></i></i>
She looks a lot like you.
She suicided last month. We're investigating her death.
Don't you only investigate the most dangerous criminals?
A white-collared professional's death, you would have interest in this?
I don't have any interest in it. It's just that I can't reject it.
Is she an agent of the ministry of public security?
Do you think that the ministry of public security sends undercover agents out as porters?
Sorry, Ms. Circulation of commodities.
Then what's the reason?
Hello?
I know.
- Let's go. <br> - Where?
To see a bothersome woman.
Do you think I like to solve useless cases?
Chariman of the board, Director Bo is here.
Hello chairman of the board, I'm Jian Yao.
Take a seat.
Come.
I thought that your assistant would be like you, an arrogant strange person.
Of course not.
Why are you judging me?
What do you think?
Who's the one who didn't say a thing and switched me to be your assistant.
Ms. Jian, I'm the one who asked Jinyan to investigate.
He insisted that he would only take the case if you were his assistant, so...
I switched your job responsibilities.
I thought that you two already discussed this.
I never thought that you still only do what you want.
We've already finished discussing it just now.
Let's talk about the case.
Some time ago, the company went to Hong Tu Villa for our semi-annual report meeting.
Wang Wanwei was found dead in the bathtub of her room. It was a suspected suicide as she left a suicide note.
There are no signs of scars from an attack and the family members requested that there be no autopsy.
In the end, the police closed the case as a suicide.
A suicide has no impact on your company's image.
As the chairman of the board, to a worker whom you've never met, why do you want to investigate?
It's not that I wanted to investigate.
A month ago, I kept receiving these.
It says that Wang Wanwei's death was not a suicide and that blackmail was involved.
It says your company's executives concealed the death by giving the family 100,000 yuan and requested the family to refuse the autopsy.
Did you hide it?
Our company is well known and has around 1000 employees.
Before I received this, I didn't even know about her death. There's no way I could blackmail anyone.
In this, there is proof of the transaction.
Wang Wangwei's parents did receive the money. The payer is from an anonymous overseas account.
The person who sent this to you traced the account.
Now this person has collected evidence.
This anonymous payer is from America.
Who is it?
It's obvious.
You know this person.
You seem very nervous. Who is it?
Yi Yang.
Who?
Her fiance.
From half a year ago, Yi Yang spent most of his time in Hong Kong.
I believe that he's not involved with this case.
But it's from his account.
If you want to blackmail someone,
would you use your own personal account to give them money?
So I hope that you will be able to solve this case quickly.
Find out who's at the bottom of this and what else don't I know.
I don't want this to keep bothering me.
Okay, I know.
But I need you to promise me one thing first.
Is it related to money?
Jian Yao really likes her job here.
When the investigation is over, I hope that she can continue to stay in the company.
To be a boring plain office member.
I know you're good at controlling public opinion<br> and covering up the truth.
So I hope that you can control people not to think that she's an undercover police officer,
two-faced white-collar worker or something mysterious of that sort.
Can you do that?
- No problem. <br> - Thank you.
Home cooked meals are the best.
It's way better than business socials and drinking.
Yao Yao, Jinyan is going to be a pig if you continue to feed him like this.
No worries, I don't get fat no matter how much I eat.
Mr.Bo,
Do you know this sentence is one of the world's top 10 sentences that asks for a spanking.
Say it, what do you want me for?
I just invite you to eat.
That's you. Is Mr. Bo that kind?
He must have something to say.
Look up this account.
Along with all of the related information.
Just a reminder, it's not an ordinary account.
Ordinary people would not be able to find this.
Ordinary people.
Am I an ordinary person?
Li Yi Yang
Are you sure about this? Aren't you afraid I might find some dark secret about your brother-in-law?
Who's brother-in-law?
Li Yi Yang is the fiancé of Chairwoman Yin
so she is your sister.
She is not my sister.
Just 20 years ago, her father married my mother
So, she is your sister.
My parents and her, her parents and me
there are no blood relations.
But, she still is your sister
by law.
Li Yi Yang is your brother-in-law
Are you sure this relationship would not interfere your judgement?
Of course not.
Then what's the next step for us?
You tell me.
Are you sure you want my idea for investigation.
This case I'm letting you investigate
just think of it as the assistant ability improvement practice.
I'm not your assistant.
You are.
I'm the business assistant of the company.
I'm the marketing director.
- You are not<br> I am.
- You are not. <br>- I am.
Hey, I'm still here.
These clothes don't suit you.
Go change and let's go.
- What for? <br> - Shopping.
You mean that, what I have at home
you want to buy a set of each too.
Cushions, blankets, rice,
Didn't you say that you couldn't understand why I did that yesterday?
To be more accurate, it's two sets.
Fu Ziyu heard that, he wants it too.
Don't you think this is the best decision?
Buying in bulk makes your task more efficient
up to 3 times more.
Bo Jinyan, do you always use people like this?
I believe in your taste and efficiency.
You're not contradictive.
You want me to buy it alone?
Then why are you coming?
Do you think I want to come?
Fu Ziyu is on a business trip today.
So you came to be the driver huh?
Thank you.
Why are you giving this to me?
Miss you have great taste, this bed is a hot item.
You can try it.
This bed has no flaws.
It's also very steady and firm.
If you roll around on it, won't it break?
Don't worry, even if you roll around, it won't.
You two can continue taking a look at it, if you have any problems feel free to call me anytime.
You're going to roll around in your bed?
Of course not.
Only Chenmo rolls around in my bed.
Jian Yao,
move in with me.
We can easily meet, if you live with me.
We would be more productive.
I don't care about what you do, you can do whatever you like.
We can be much more efficient.
Sir and Miss, are you satisfied with this bed?
Can you please not talk for a second.
In summary
you are generating a greater value.
Sorry, I'm not interested.
Why do you have no interest in me?
You haven't answered me yet. Why aren't you interested in living with me?
Don't think about it ever again. I like a peaceful life.
I'm not moving to the upper floor and that's that.
You made the wrong decision.
Mom, forgive my weakness
let me experience the last emptiness and indulgence
the start and the end of the darkness
I've been doing many wrongful things
Taking a wrong step and every step after that is wrong.
I can't go back.
So I'm not going to turn my head around
I chose to end
mom, there's 20000Yuan in my bank account
the PIN is my birthday
There's not a lot of money. Sorry, mom.
Mom, don't be sad. This decision
to me is a relief.
I can't change fate
but at least I can choose to end it all.
My life ends in my own hands.
Good-bye, mom. Don't grieve too much,
Tomorrow is another new start.
Sorry, I'm not being a dutiful daughter.
I finished reading the note.
Being my secretary doesn't require these emotions.
Can you go back to your normal state please?
Women are emotional.
Unless you find a man, a man that could
cook, go fishing,
Help you decorate the house, take care of Chenmo
And doesn't mind your picky, detailed attitude..
Did the police think the note was sincere,
So they made it look like a suicide? This point should be no problem right?
Emotions are the hardest things possible to be scientifically and quantitatively judged.
If they closed the case just based on this point,
Then the murder can be covered up as a suicide, that's too easy.
The murderer only has to write down a sentence and it would be fine.
I dislike the freshman problems,
A simple statement
Quickly say it.
This is the note she wrote for suicide
First, when she wrote the note.
She was not forced by anyone
because the writing is clear with many cursive
and consistency.
If she was forced by someone, then in her writings
there will be mistakes or pauses.
Besides this point, there are other suspicious points.
For example when she wrote the note,
she used many metaphors.
For instance the defeat of the general,
shell, endless hole, abyss
and there are many repeated words and sentences.
Such as "mom don't be afraid,"
and some broken sentences, "my life has become grey
and dirty." If there was someone who faked the note,
or the one who forced her to write it,
It wouldn't be anything like this.
They could require the note to be clear and short.
To the point, makes sense,
and to avoid loopholes.
This note, from the writing
there are some grammar mistakes and habits.
So this is a real note.
People who lie will try to cover up the lie.
But the people who speak the truth don't care about it.
So what do we do right now?
First we need to investigate on the reason of suicide.
How do we start the investigation?
What are some of the reasons why women suicide?
Work, love
Pressure, health.
That's perfect.
I have no interest in things like this.
You can decide.
Then, we have to start investigating from the person's background.
Have you read any criminal psychology books?
Office lady being a detective. It should be,
Timing and subtitles brougt to you by Gone with the Shirt Team@ Viki <i></i>
Jian Yao,
What are you doing?
I'm helping Mr. Bo find a document.
I will tell other people to print one for you.
Let's go, I'll treat you.
How about another day?
Don't worry, there will be other people there.
Our co-workers are there.
Let's go.
Here.
Let me ask you,
<i> What's the best food here? </i>
Wang Wanwei's blog was deleted.
Who could have done it? If it was problems about love,
Would it be because of him?
Do you think it would taste good with or without alcohol?
This would differ depending on your preference.
I like...
Or is it him?
Hello?
If it's pressure from work,
Alright alright, I'll
Immediately change it, I'm very sorry.
Would manager Lin not like me?
Let me tell you,
This is a secret. Manager Lin is very strict with his subordinates.
Especially towards such a pretty woman like you.
Be careful of being eaten by the big wolf.
Hey, who's the big wolf?
Just eat your food. Don't mind him.
Sorry, Mr. Bo is looking for me, I'm leaving first.
I'm done too, I'll take you there.
Hey, miss pretty,
Why are you leaving as soon as he calls? <br>Are you that scared of him?
It's better to be careful.
Ha, you are really a rookie.
Take it easy, take a deep breath.
It's there. Remember what I told you.
Bye bye.
If I were you, I would avoid having too much contact with them.
Could your tone be not so repulsive?
They didn't touch me at all.
What are you doing?
I am sorry for touching you by accident.
Absurd.
What is this?
Wang Wanwei's blog.
You checked it as well, but it was all deleted.
Where did you find this?
You will have to learn to keep up with my pace.
<i> Timing and subtitles brought to you by Gone with the Shirt Team@ Viki <i></i></i>
"September 4th. Today he wore a new suit, very handsome,
I met him and he said the documents I wrote up was very good,
I'm so happy." "November 9th. Today, he wore a light blue tie
I realized he has a lot of blue ties.
Does he know that blue is also a color I like?
In the future, it will be my new favorite color."
"November 20th. What should I do? I think I like him more and more.
If my heart is the mouth of the spring, then he is the clear water,
little by little, occupying and filling up my entire heart.
"December 28th. Why aren't things going smoothly?
He still smiles while talking to me
But in his heart, does he think I'm useless?"
This he...
It's Mai Chen.
Even though Pei Ze had a blue necktie,
but she used words like dim light, clean and spring to describe this boy.
He had to be Mai Chen,
because that is the impression Mai Chen leaves with everyone.
Welcome.
this does not fit PeiZe's temperament
Spring,
dim light,
comparison.
This woman's thinking, I just really can't understand.
But I agree with your point.
It's Mai Chen.
What kinds of metaphor would a woman use on me?
Can we compare you to anything?
What do you want to say?
First, I declare that my metaphor isn't meant to offend you in any way.
A Labrador with pride and arrogance.
Your metaphors will never be as good as Wang Wanwei's.
♫ <i> Perhaps letting go of love will draw it closer to me than owning it. </i>♫
♫ <i> But I’ve already become obsessed. </i> ♫
♫ <i> Day after day, who has stolen the traces of life from me? </i> ♫
♫ <i> Please accompany me. Who will accompany me </i> ♫
♫ <i> to go into that moment of clear wind? </i> ♫
♫ <i> Tonight, the shining stars don’t leave me. </i> ♫
♫ <i> I am standing at the place we agreed to meet. </i> ♫
♫ <i> Waiting until you finally awaken the dream. </i> ♫
♫ <i> Fireworks in the darkness are the only proof of you. </i> ♫
♫ <i> Thousands and millions of stars have already been moved because of you. </i> ♫
♫ <i> I want to be with you, together on that long road. </i>♫
♫ <i> Perhaps letting go of love will draw it closer to me than owning it. </i> ♫
♫ <i> But I want to find you. </i> ♫
♫ <i> Day by day, year by year, you protect the traces of life. </i> ♫
♫ <i> Please take me with you. We agreed never to separate. </i> ♫
♫ <i> Let’s go into that endless world. </i> ♫
♫ <i> Tonight, the shining stars don’t leave me. </i> ♫
♫ <i> I am standing at the place we agreed to meet. </i>♫
♫ <i> Waiting until you finally awaken the dream. </i> ♫
♫ <i> Fireworks in the darkness are the only proof of you. </i> ♫
♫ <i> This entire life, one heart has already been moved because of you. </i> ♫
♫ <i> I want to be with you, together in this lifetime. </i> ♫
