Recording footage in a movie theater is a crime.
You could be sentenced to
up to ten years in prison,
be fined for up to ten million
yen, or potentially both.
If you see suspicious activity,
please notify theater staff.
[SIGN] No More Movie Theft
No more movie theft.
[SIGN] No More Movie Theft
Enough already.
How many times are you gonna steal movies before you're satisfied, asshole?
You didn't steal anything?
Nope. You stole something quite precious.
And you keep making the same mistake every time I go to see a movie.
You're one of those, aren't you?
You were even there when the Benizakura movie was in theaters!
Don't play dumb.
I saw you doing that stupid pantomime with a smug look on your face.
I don't wanna see you doing your creepy mime act ever again.
Don't you realize annoying it is for the audience to watch that after sitting through all those previews?
No more movie theft!
Seriously, let's get this movie started already, dumbass.
Sorry about all the fuss, folks.
We'll go ahead and get started. Right away.
You need to apologize too, come on.
No one said to apologize with pantomime!
If you start pantomiming internally, you may as well hang it up.
Pardon us for a sec, I'll try and wrap this up quickly.
Hey! What are you doing? Let's get a move on.
We can't keep the audience waiting.
Are you crying?
Hang on.
What is this?!
I just said we're keeping everybody waiting!
We can't get into the movie unless you apologize first!
Come on.
Are you listening to me?
All right, look.
Maybe I went a little too far.
But this is your fault. You were trying to steal the movie.
What?
You feel pathetic?
As long as you realize you did something wrong, I'm fine with that.
It's totally cool, okay?
I wasn't really that mad anyway.
But since it's a movie, and you got folks with their kids watching...
You gotta at least say the stuff that's expected, right?
That's all it was. Come on, apologize and let's get this show on the road.
Yeah.
So you moved to the city to be a professional mime,
but it didn't bring in any money, and you started bootlegging movies.
Look, I know it can be tough,
but that's no excuse for what you did.
You shouldn't blame your problems on your dreams, y'know?
You'd be making a mockery of pantomime if you did.
I get it, and I'll hear you out in the dressing room, just get up for now.
Oh, so your dream is to be a movie pirate now?
I see.
That's fine.
Just become a big shot movie pirate, then.
There, now you don't have to apologize, right?
Let's get out of here already, okay?
Huh? What now?
What is it? Your camera's not working right?
Because I smacked it?
No way. I hit it that hard?
You okay?
You wanna stop by Bic Camera?
You don't think you can pirate movies anymore?
What? No way!
Was it me? Is this my fault?
Hold on, I think I've got enough points saved up for Bic Camera to...
Will this be enough?
Aw, man.
I'm sorry.
Weekly Shonen Jump 45th Anniversary
Gintama Movie Production Committee
Why are you recording the movie now too?!
Cut it out already, you two!
How many times do you have to see that message to <i>get</i> the message?!
Don't you get what "no more"
means?! People are sick of it!
Well, I kinda caused the guy some trouble, so I wanted to help him out.
You're causing trouble for the audience!
Our job was supposed to be theater security!
[SIGN] The Thingie Rises
Our job was supposed to be theater security!
[SIGN] The Thingie Rises
You're supposed to bust suspicious people, not be suspicious!
[SIGN] The Thingie Rises
Nobody comes to this crappy old theater anyway.
Nobody comes to this crappy old theater anyway.
Besides, since they're here in the middle of the day watching a porno flick,
this whole crowd is suspicious as hell.
Who are you calling suspicious, asshole?!
Even if the crowd here is all human failures,
the other side of the screen is filled
with good boys and girls!
We need to teach them proper movie manners!
[SIGN] Movie Watching Etiquette
Listen up, boys and girls!
[SIGN] Movie Watching Etiquette
Listen up, boys and girls!
Here's the first rule of movie watching etiquette!
During the movie, you can't take pictures.
And especially no recording videos!
You see anyone doing that kind of thing,
you have to report them to theater
staff as soon as you can!
Great, I guess I'm a criminal now.
[SIGN] Movie Watching Etiquette
Great, I guess I'm a criminal now.
[SIGN] Movie Watching Etiquette
Rule number two!
Rule number two!
Make sure to turn off everything,
including your cell phones, during the movie.
And no talking, so you don't bother anyone else watching.
And if you're the kind of nasty bitch who screams "Lord Takasugi!" during the movie,
I'm gonna turn off your life's power, got it?!
Uh, who are you talking to?
What kind of warning is this?
[SIGN] Movie Watching Etiquette
What kind of warning is this?
[SIGN] Movie Watching Etiquette
Rule number three!
[SIGN] Movie Watching Etiquette
Sometimes you can't get the limited edition gifts unless you see a movie three times,
[SIGN] Movie Watching Etiquette
or sometimes they'll give away different gifts depending on the screening.
Other shady tricks may apply like with K-**! merchandise,
so be careful when you make your ticket purchase!
Wait, what rule is this?!
Those nasty adults are all desperate for your money!
So keep your head on your shoulders, and keep your wallet shut!
Uh, we don't really have a right to say that.
We literally did that kind of stuff
with the Benizakura movie!
[SIGN] Movie Watching Etiquette
Rule number four!
[SIGN] Movie Watching Etiquette
Rule number four!
Every time you see "The Thingie Rises" in theaters,
The Thingie Rises - Special Theater Bonus! ! The Thingie Rises
Every time you see "The Thingie Rises" in theaters,
The Thingie Rises - Special Theater Bonus! ! The Thingie Rises
you'll receive a film strip featuring either the queen, the pig, or the horse!
The Thingie Rises - Special Theater Bonus! ! The Thingie Rises
If you collect all three, you can replicate a scene from the movie!
The Thingie Rises - Special Theater Bonus! ! The Thingie Rises
It's a special three-in-one bonus!
The Thingie Rises - Special Theater Bonus! ! The Thingie Rises
Be sure to collect all three, boys and girls!
The Thingie Rises - Special Theater Bonus! ! The Thingie Rises
What the hell kind of bonus is that?!
The Thingie Rises - Special Theater Bonus! ! The Thingie Rises
Hey, maybe since there's three of us we'll have collected all three already.
The one with the queen is mine.
I'll take the pig then.
One way of collecting them is to come with friends together as a trio!
Wait, I get the horse?! Can't I at least get a human?!
Shut up!
Who cares, get the freaking movie started!
Nobody wants these crappy bonuses anyway!
We're terribly sorry! We'll go
ahead and get things started!
Hey, wait! The movie thief!
Get your ass back here!
You're not going anywhere you camera bastard!
Trying to get away with it, huh?
Kagura, before we turn him into the police,
we should probably check what he recorded.
Whoa, hold up you two.
He was recording a porno, remember?
If you look at that...
Then there's going to be some crazy stuff on the screen the boys and girls are watching.
It's gonna be like a 3D movie, except something is going to pop out from the audience.
You want me to make your brain pop out of your skull?
Let the grown-up handle this.
I'm not gonna get 3D over a bit of footage.
Why don't you come with me?
It's gonna be fine. We're just gonna take a little break.
You're totally ready for the 3D viewing experience!
And why are you pulling out the dirty jokes already?!
Now then, where's that play button?
There we go.
Now, what did you record?
There you stand, soaked in blood.
The spitting image of a demon.
After failing to defend your comrades, you choose the path of carnage.
But your monstrous hands...
In time, they will even take those you hold dear,
and crush them to oblivion.
That is the price a demon pays.
Devouring both beloved and hated,
you will be left to howl in solitude, alone in this world,
White Devil.
Gintama The Final Chapter - The Movie :
Be Forever Odd Jobs
[Pattsuan] The land of the samurai.
[Ginchon] Huh? What?
[Pattsuan] Long ago, there was a time when our country was called by that name.
[Ginchon] What's going on here?
[Pattsuan] The blue skies that samurai used to gaze upon are now filled with strange vessels.
[Ginchon] This looks like the beginning of something.
[Pattsuan] The streets the samurai used to stride proudly down
[Ginchon] This is kind of an avant-garde beginning.
[Pattsuan] are now filled with strangers, who act as if they own them.
[Ginchon] Whoa, this is bad. He's actually got the new Gintama movie recorded!
[Pattsuan] That's the world we live in. That's our city, Edo.
[Ginchon] I dunno where he made this copy, but if it gets uploaded to the internet,
 we're never gonna beat the K-**! movie's box office earnings.
[Pattsuan] In an age where the samurai have lost their swords, and their pride.
[Ginchon] And isn't one of the subtitles on this thing "The Final Chapter"?
[Pattsuan] In these hard times, there was one man left who kept the spirit of the samurai alive
[Ginchon]  And it says something like "Be Forever Odd Jobs"? I'm pretty sure that's in the title.
[Pattsuan] as he continued to live on.
[Ginchon] Is that really the premise for this one? I didn't hear anything about that.
Sakata Gintoki
[Pattsuan] The last samurai, Sakata Gintoki.
 [SIGN] Sakata Gintoki
[SIGN] Sakata Gintoki
[Pattsuan] But he hasn't been called that in a long time.
Sakata Gintoki
[Pattsuan] But he hasn't been called that in a long time.
Hold the hell up!
W-W-What the fudge?!
The Final Chapter?! Like, as in
good old Gin's final chapter?!
You think just because it's a movie you can pull something like this?!
Isn't this sorta thing normally more of a gimmicky hype generator?!
Naruto survived his movie, when
they said he was gonna die!
And the Yamato was supposed to say goodbye,
but then it shows up again with Kimura Takuya! What a load of crap!
When you do a flick that can
contradict the original story,
you gotta run it by Shueisha first, Sunrise!
This is way worse than movie piracy!
I need to go bust some heads over
at the studio in Kamiigusa.
Uh, which way to Kamiigusa?
Actually, where am I?
Hey, wasn't I in a theater a few seconds ago?
What is this?
No, no, no no no no no!
No, no no no!
That's impossible!
This is like, y'know, a 3D movie!
Boy, the latest CG imagery is pretty amazing!
Talk about immersion!
So this is how 3D movies look now?
Instead of things popping out at you, it's like it sucks you inside!
I wonder how the film classification board's gonna feel about this?!
Man, talk about realistic!
Even the dango looks real enough to eat.
And it actually is edible.
No, no, this is fine!
After all, 3D comes from "three dango" after all!
I'm pretty sure that's true!
It's okay! This is just 3D!
Well now...
His offering is gone.
Gintoki, looks like there are still fools in this world
who are as disrespectful as you were.
G-Granny?!
You stole and ate an offering for my husband once, didn't you?
And now the same thing happens to you.
I guess you really do reap what you sow.
It's already been five years since you died.
This town is completely different from when you were around.
If you saw it now, I wonder what you'd say?
Are you the one in hell?
Or is the world we live in hell?
I bet it's hard to tell now.
But even so, we're all still alive.
We're still here, after accepting your death.
Finding our way...
So try and find some peace on the other side.
This isn't 3D.
It's not even a movie.
Then where the hell am I?
I assure you, this is reality.
Well, perhaps that's not specific enough.
Master Gintoki, for you, this is the reality that you would eventually face.
You...
You can talk?!
Hey, wait!
I thought you were gonna be a mute character like the old man at the bakery from Kiki's,
so why are you now talking a bunch of nonsense?!
Master Gintoki, unfortunately, I am neither a movie pirate nor Osono's husband.
I was created in order to bring you to this world.
I am a temporal transport system
known as the Time Thief.
In other words, I am a time machine.
The world you see is what exists five years from the time you lived in.
The fate of the world...
The future, in which the world has ended.
T-This is...?
This is the future in five years?
Our future, after the end of the world?
It's only natural that you would be surprised.
However, your death is by no means unique.
As you can see, the world has declined to the point of being a mere shadow of its former glory.
A third of Earth's population has died,
and a fourth of it has fled to other planets,
leading the world to its current state of abandonment.
My creator wanted to change the state of this world.
And so I was sent to bring you here.
Who are you talking about?!
What the hell happened to our world?!
Hey! Say something—
It seems my part in this is over.
Hold up!
What part?!
All you've done is drag me here and then get broken!
That's just being a pain in the ass!
I have shown you the path.
The rest is up to you.
You haven't done crap!
This is like inviting someone to a steak dinner and then showing them a cow!
How am I supposed to change the future?!
And if you're broken—
how am I supposed to get back to my time?!
Hey! Tin can!
Put this... on your forehead.
You are an anomaly in this era,
someone who should not exist.
With this sno******* device,
no one will recognize you.
You will be seen as a different person.
Did you just say snot? You totally said snot—
You must make sure to conceal your true identity.
First, seek out Master Gengai.
I'm certain he will be able to help you.
Hey, wait! You can't just leave me alone in this time!
Master Gintoki, you are not alone.
The world may be in ruins,
but no matter how much the
world or the times change,
some things... remain the same.
I'm sure of that...
Hey! Hang in there! Hey?!
Hey!
I... I'm screwed!
What am I gonna do now?!
Hey there, buster.
Why are you standing in the middle of the street?
Now my ride's got a scratch on it.
How about you hand over all
your cash so I can get it fixed up?!
Aren't these guys from a different anime?!
Is this movie now Gin of the North Star?!
[SIGN] Gin of the North Star
Is this movie now Gin of the North Star?!
[SIGN] Gin of the North Star
Uh, I'm sorry about that.
Please forgive me. I'm kinda
confused, so I can't really...
Hey bro, this dude don't got a mask!
Is he nuts?!
Running around Edo without a mask is like
Mr. Ogura running headfirst into a typhoon!
Does this dumbass not know about the white plague?!
Plaque?
Oh, I thought you were just wearing
masks because you're ugly,
but it's because you forgot to brush your teeth?
Not plaque! Plague!
Is he for real?
This guy must be from some podunk town the white plague hasn't spread to yet!
Hey, go ahead and leave your clothes too.
If you don't have a mask, you may as well be naked.
Enough.
If you're on this planet for tourism...
You've either got real guts,
or are a complete moron.
But if you don't want to die, go home.
Country bumpkin or thug,
I'm not letting anyone else make
things worse in this town.
Though, if you're stupid enough to think wearing a mask can protect you from the white plague,
maybe you people are the dumb hicks.
What was that?!
You think you can talk to us like that?!
Get going. I'll handle this.
Let's kick his ass too!
Is that?
That wooden sword!
Who the hell is this guy?! He's a freaking monster!
Hey, isn't that...? That wooden sword...
And those glasses!
It can't be.
It can't be!
Quit your stupid yelping already.
You fools just start puberty or something?
H-He's part of the Odd Jobs!
It's Shinpachi from the Odd Jobs!
The rumored muscle-for-hire that's
been hunting down thugs?!
Huh? Wait... What?!
What are you letting him scare you for?! Attack him together!
Huh? Wait... What?!
What are you letting him scare you for?! Attack him together!
Shinpachi from the Odd Jobs?! Who?!
What are you letting him scare you for?! Attack him together!
Shinpachi from the Odd Jobs?! Who?!
Is this seriously?
In five years, did that pair of glasses I used to know turn into this?
No no no, no way! I don't know this guy!
I don't know any Seigaku pillars like him!
W-What the hell?!
Why's it taking you so long to
wipe up a bunch of scum?
If you want to call yourself part of the Odd Jobs, you'll need to do a lot better than that.
Tsk, another nuisance.
Gura!
It's Gura from the Odd Jobs and Sadaharu!
Gura from the Odd Jobs?!
The female muscle-for-hire that's been running wild all across Edo?!
"Gla"?!
Wait, hang on. The only other glasses I know...
Are these!
Did that pair of glasses seriously
turn into this in five—
Gespenst—!
What was that all about?
I just got the feeling I was being insulted.
Wait, is that who that is?!
The bottomless appetite with negative sex-appeal...
<i>Gimme your fried chicken skin, butthole.
That completely horrible waste on a voice actress, has in five years?!
Just so you know, I didn't come to help you.
I was just passing through to buy some kombu,
so don't get the wrong idea.
The voice actress suits her role this time?!
She's turned into a proper tsundere!
Who the hell?! I don't know
anybody with curves like that!
Dammit!
Why are the two craziest people from the Odd Jobs in Edo here together?!
It's no good, bro! They're monsters!
Beat it!
We'll remember this!
For real? Is this for real?
These two... are those two?
And in five years...
They've grown so strong?!
What is this? Am I being replaced?
Good old Gin's being overshadowed here!
I'm gone for a little while and
you two are a big deal now?!
What kind of debut is this?! The Gin's-Dead-Debut?!
I wouldn't have thought you would still be working as Odd Jobs.
Same to you. I would've thought you'd be tired of playing house by now.
You're the only one who's playing.
Stay out of my way. Edo doesn't need two Odd Jobs.
I'm not like you.
My business doesn't consist of a weakling, for instance.
What are you trying to say? How am I weak?
Maybe I should show you?
Interesting.
Let's finally settle which of us should be carrying the title of Odd Jobs—
Whoa whoa whoa whoa!
I dunno what's going on, but
you two should calm down!
No fighting, okay?
What is with these two?! They're
at each other's throats!
Anyway, are you two really Shinpachi and Kagura?
Who is this creepy old guy?
He's got snot on his forehead.
Who are you calling an old guy, you little mare?!
Think you're hot stuff just because you grew up?! You wanna get groped?!
And don't get the wrong idea!
This isn't actual snot, it's a mole!
Huh? You're the one who
shouldn't get the wrong idea.
I wasn't talking about the mole,
but that wad that's next to it.
There really was snot on my head!
Why is this guy dressed like Gin, anyway?
I'd rather know how he knows us.
That's right!
<i>...no one will recognize you.
<i>You must make sure to conceal your true identity.
Uh, actually, Gin helped me out a long time ago.
We got to be real good friends, like soul brothers!
Brothers?
He gave me these clothes back then.
Oh, he told me all about you two, as well!
I never heard anything about a soul brother.
What's your name?
[SIGN] Otose - Snack House
Chin?
Hello. I am Chin Po.
[Comment] This is how he actually appears
[Comment] This is how he actually appears
[Comment] This is how he actually appears
I never heard about any soul brother from him.
So, you came all this way to visit his grave after you learned he was dead?
Yes. And these two happened to help me out while I was on my way.
Well now, when did you two put the Odd Jobs back together?
Spare me the jokes.
I don't intend to work with some little girl.
And this girl would rather not have him get in the way.
Uh, I heard that those two got along when they were doing odd jobs with Gin.
Oh, they broke up a long time ago.
With Gintoki gone, and the world in the shape it's in...
They apparently got into quite
a fight when they were
trying to decide what to do with the Odd Jobs.
And now they're off on their own.
Like Odd Jobs Fumiya and Odd Jobs Takamoku.
Is that a good idea?! They're not just ripping off their old Odd Jobs sound are they?!
They're basically fighting over who takes his place.
Who gets to protect Edo with Gintoki gone, and all that.
Gin protected Edo?
I don't really get it, but they want to follow in his footsteps.
And neither of them will back down.
What are these idiots thinking?!
The Odd Jobs business isn't worth fighting over!
Um...
I don't really get it all.
Oh, can I get a beer?
Anyway, you shouldn't fight like this.
I mean, the only thing you're going
to inherit from Gin is debt.
Instead of fighting, I'm sure Gin
would want you two to get—
What do you know about Gin?
I know him pretty intimately, I'd say.
I don't need friends anymore.
After what happened to him...
I've forsaken friends, my role as the straight man, and Otsuu's CDs.
You didn't need two-thirds of that anyway!
And you've also forsaken your identity!
From now on, it's all about the Edo Muscats.
<i>Who cares if it's a scene with three *****!
Wait, does this mean she's doing that kind of thing now?!
You're not the only one who's lost things.
After five years in Edo, I've stopped
saying "aru" all the time,
or making Bobby-esque Japanese mistakes.
That's all long gone.
So all you lost was weird tics that made you sound foreign?!
I'm pretty sure Otsuu is the one who's lost the most here!
I'd give it up, Chin.
It just shows how everyone's changed over the years.
That's right.
But, being able to change like that for better or worse, it's their right as youngsters.
The older you get, the harder it is to change.
Compared to them,
I haven't grown at all.
You've grown a hell of a lot, actually!
I bet good old Gin would be laughing if he could see me now.
No, I wouldn't! What the hell happened to you in five years?!
But, y'know, Catherine.
You've gotten pretty old in the last five years.
Honestly, Hasegawa...
You'll never be popular with the ladies if you say stuff like that!
The lady part was thrown right out the window?!
That'd just make Sakata laugh at you even harder from the other side.
You're the biggest laughingstock here!
Besides, it's not that I'm old, my race descends from felines,
so the older we get, the longer our whiskers get.
What about the beard?!
From my perspective, I think you have all grown splendidly.
I'm still always looking behind me.
I can't move on, or even stand on my own two legs anymore.
Even though I'm a machine, it's so strange.
You're damn right it is!
I don't mind being unable to walk though,
considering how much more efficient this is.
My core block can even separate.
I'm sure Master Gintoki would be smiling on me, from the other side.
This is weird. These guys are all super weird.
A bunch of oddballs, right?
But even so,
the fact that they can goof around like this, like in the old days,
it's all because his friends are just as foolish as he was.
Those kids are keeping this town standing.
So in terms of things he left behind...
[SIGN] Odd Jobs Gin
That's the one thing I can be grateful to the idiot for.
[SIGN] Odd Jobs Gin
I need to ask you something.
What's this white plague?
What happened to Edo?
It's what changed everything.
It first appeared in Edo, and spread through the world like wildfire. A killer virus.
People who are infected die within a month.
There's no treatment.
Nobody knows how it's contracted,
or where it came from.
The way it causes all color to drain from the infected's hair earned it the name "the white curse."
White plague, the mysterious virus.
The only way to avoid infection is to run.
Anyone with money abandoned the Earth.
The people left behind are
the ones too poor to escape,
thugs who wanted to take advantage of the new lawlessness,
and hardheaded idiots who were too stubborn to run away.
Then this is going to happen in my world?
If it wasn't for the virus,
I'm sure Gin would be slouching over his desk and picking his nose like usual.
Wait, then did Gin get this white plague?
Gin wouldn't die from some stupid virus!
That idiot went missing before the white plague started spreading.
I figured he was out drinking somewhere, and that he'd come home someday.
That's what I thought.
Until I found this notebook.
[Writing] White Plague - Nanomachine Virus
Gin knew about it before it started to spread.
And he also knew it was a virus caused by nanomachines.
And he also knew it was a virus caused by nanomachines.
[Writing] Nanomachine Virus
Nanomachines?!
In other words, the white plague
was created by somebody.
Someone who wanted to destroy this world.
Gin was probably trying to stop it, on his own.
According to the notes, he had almost tracked down the culprit.
But then...
He ate some poisonous mushrooms in the forest.
That's got nothing to do with the white plague!
Where did the poisonous mushrooms even come from?!
This was the last thing in the notebook.
[Writing] Eat Mushroom
Get Tummy Ache
[Writing] Eat Mushroom
Get Tummy Ache
[Writing] Eat Mushroom
Get Tummy Ache
[Writing] Eat Mushroom
Get Tummy Ache
Don't get the wrong idea! It's not like that's how he died.
He went to the bathroom and never came back.
That's what the manager of the convenience store who found the notepad said.
That's still a crappy way of dying!
Then, what are you saying? Gin might still be alive?
Who knows?
Can you really say someone who's been on the toilet for five years is alive?
Maybe he died, maybe he was flushed.
Maybe he's just having the biggest dump ever.
Although if you took a dump that long, you'd probably die anyway.
So no matter what, it's super lame?!
The kind of death that you can't clean up, no matter how much you wipe?!
That's enough.
You already explained the white plague to him.
Talking about it isn't going to change what happened.
No matter how much we want it back, those days are long gone.
[SIGN] Odd Jobs - Gin
[SIGN] Odd Jobs - Gin
The job he left behind... I'm going to finish it.
I'm going to stop the white plague.
Shinpachi...
You should realize how dangerous it is on this world.
If you're done with your visit
to his grave, then get lost.
What if I told you you could get those days back?
You don't have to glare at me like that.
I'm just talking about a possibility.
I don't have time to waste on your nonsense.
From what I can see, you've been up to nothing but nonsense.
All this stuff about fulfilling his wishes...
What are you gonna accomplish by protecting a wreck of a planet like this one?
It's true, there's no way to get what we lost back.
But Gin will come back someday.
He'll stumble in, throwing up, and he'll be back.
If there's no one left on the planet,
who's going to put a blanket on that drunken idiot?
This is the world where we met him.
I don't want to abandon the Odd Jobs'
homeworld or the fact that I worked here.
I see. That's a relief.
You Odd Jobs guys took on any kind of jobs, right?
So you'll hear me out, won't you?
You ready to re-form the Odd Jobs, with me?
What are you saying?!
[Comment] This is how he actually appears
[Comment] This is how he actually appears
[Comment] This is how he actually appears
You wanna finish Gin's last job, right?
I'm saying I can help you out.
So you two should help me out too.
My partner kind of got messed up when we arrived.
So we need to meet with old man Gengai to get him fixed up.
What's any of that got to do with Gin's last job?
Who knows?
I don't know myself, yet.
Stop playing around!
Do you honestly think we'd humor your ridiculous—
You will.
Because you two are the Odd Jobs, aren't you?
Why is Sadaharu...?
This is insane.
Are you seriously going to team up with him?
What else can I do? Look at Sadaharu.
Besides, if you've got a problem with it, then don't tag along!
This is more than your Odd Jobs can handle anyway.
All you do is act like a pretentious teenager, too afraid to get his hands dirty!
Who are you calling a—?!
Phew, that was close. I'm not falling for your tricks.
Did you think you could taunt me into acting as the straight man again?
Nobody wanted to hear your obnoxious comebacks anyway.
I can't have you sullying the name of the Odd Jobs behind my back—
Sadaharu, stop!
If you eat that bizarre old man, you'll be more sick than you would from the white plague!
Your crotch will get all itchy!
Are you calling me a venereal disease?!
Wait here. I just remembered I needed something from the pharmacy.
I'm not contagious, Shinpachi!
Are you still as ignorant about sex as a pretentious teenager?!
Who are you calling—?!
Phew, that was close. I'm not falling for your tricks.
Did you think you could infect me
with a VD by provoking me?
You two are disgracing the Odd Jobs name worst of all.
Hey, what's the commotion?
Hey, coming through.
A public execution?
Is old man Gengai here in the crowd?
Man, there's too many people.
No. Not that way.
Look.
So that's the mad scientist who tried to kill the Shogun and cause a coup d'etat?
Hiraga Gengai, the enemy of the state.
What?
Old man Gengai was arrested five years ago, and was scheduled to be executed today.
What?! Executed?!
Why didn't you say anything?! What's going on?!
It's pretty simple.
He's been a fugitive the whole time, so he was in hiding before.
But since Gin disappeared, he started drinking heavily.
He ended up getting so drunk he turned a Colonel Sanders statue
into a weapon of mass destruction,
Colonel Sander-Liger.
What was that geezer thinking?!
Hang on a second!
If he dies, how am I gonna fix my time machine?!
Time machine?
Uh, just some personal business.
Hey, can't we save him?!
Do you think we just left him to die?
I tried to do something, several times,
but every time I saw him, he refused to talk.
There was no way to help him.
Well, do you have any last words?
What the hell is that old bastard thinking?!
He's my only lead in changing the future.
Wait, where's Zura?!
Considering how weak the government's gotten,
even that idiot should be useful...
now...
So that's the cold-blooded Joui terrorist and enemy of the state, Katsura Kotaro?
What?
It's exactly what it looks like.
What is he doing?! This is the exact same situation!
Zura was one of the most cool-headed
among the Joui patriots,
but after Gin left, he went crazy.
And sided with the extremist patriots.
He started saying all this stupid teenager crap about "destroying the world,"
and was caught modifying Colonel Sander-Liger into Colonel Sander-Shinsuke.
Why is the Colonel getting caught up in all this?!
What kind of tiny world is he trying to destroy?!
I thought he might know what's going on!
What are you doing?! Are you
stupid?! Do you want to die?!
Any last words?
Hey! Zura! Zura!
Hey, he's writing something down!
Maybe he's trying to tell us something!
Come on, Zura! You do know something, don't you?!
Zura!
Excuse me. Please let me cut his head off.
Who are you?!
Hey! What are you doing?!
Shut up! I need to kill this idiot personally!
Calm down. You're being ridiculous.
Wait, the Shinsengumi!
It's been five years, even those dopey clowns...
should...
So that's a gorilla.
Wow, a real gorilla.
What?
It's exactly what it looks like: a gorilla.
Okay, that is enough!
Why is the cop under arrest?!
During one of his repeated acts of stalking Big Sis,
he disguised himself as Colonel Sanders.
He was given a bazooka from a weird old guy,
and then given a pipe by a weirdo with long hair, when the bazooka went off...
He was arrested for destroying
the shopping district.
So he was the Colonel?!
It's like some kind of miracle collaboration between three total numskulls!
Quit screwing around!
Hey! Could somebody with connections in the government help me out?!
Hey! Anybody?!
Any last words?
Hey! Gorilla! Gorilla! Satisfaction!
Hey, he's writing something down too!
[SIGN] This is turning me on Kondo
Excuse me. Please let me cut his d*** off.
I just asked, who are you—?!
Come on! Give it a rest!
Shut up! I don't even care anymore! Let me kill these fools!
The Gorilla might be useless, but maybe Hijikata and the others...
We don't have time to track them down!
Old man!
I owe you one, Odd Jobs.
Since you bunch made such a good distraction, I was able to sneak up with no trouble.
You're—!
The former Shinsengumi 1st Division Captain, and current biggest threat to the government!
The manslayer Okita! Okita Sougo!
W-Wait! Up on the bridge!
All right men, it's time for action.
This country tried to take Kondo Isao from us...
This country that tried to take
Katsura Kotaro from us...
It's time we deliver judgment!
I, Hijikata Toshiro...
And Elizabeth are in command!
Follow us!
It's the Shinsengumi and Katsura extremist factions!
They've formed an alliance?!
Run for it! Or you'll get caught up in the fight!
Hey! What is this supposed to be?!
I thought I needed police connections,
but now the whole damn bunch
of them are Joui patriots!
Why are government goons trying to take down the government?!
Why are the guys who were being chased down teaming up with them?!
Why is the monster-looking dude from before now a literal, genuinely scary monster?!
This is our chance to save the old man!
I'm not letting you hog all the glory!
Stay out of my way!
Shut up!
Hey! Save the fighting for later!
Dammit! I won't let you people stop us!
Old man! Look out!
Pass!
This is your fault! No matter how you look at it, this was totally you guys' fault!
Don't be ridiculous! I was protecting you from being attacked!
The only one with evil intentions was Kagura!
What are you talking about?!
This is your fault for trying to hog all the glory!
You can have all the glory you want!
Hey, let's just settle this with rock-paper-scissors!
You're the one who actually hit him!
Go ahead and dunk him too!
You're the one who dunked me
on his head in the first place!
What's that sound?
[SIGN] Sorry, you lose!
Gen
Let's have a toast to our leaders! Cheers!
[SIGN] Celebration
Welcome Back Kondo & Katsura
I really don't know how to thank—
no, how to repay you all.
I can't imagine things were easy while we were gone.
Nah, it was nothing.
Thanks to our alliance with the
Shinsengumi, we're unstoppable now.
Oh, come on Elizabeth.
It was your warrior deeds that
really deserve commendation.
The same goes for you, Hijikata.
Your fight was deserving of
the title "Demon Vice-Captain."
You should know that's all old business now.
Right now we're the White Lightning Super Mayo Bros. Tosshy and Eli.
That is true, Tosshy.
Here's looking forward to a long partnership, Eli.
Katsura. There's something I need to say to you—
Don't. We've both been through enough to not bring up the past anymore.
Katsura...
Just call me Zura.
Kondo...
Just call me Gorilla.
[SIGN] Welcome Back Kondo & Katsura
Now that we're working together,
I know we can turn this rotten era around!
Yes! Let us make our way there together!
So that we might create a new age!
[SIGN] Welcome Back Kondo & Katsura
Chief, Mr. Katsura, you're forgetting
some important people.
Oh, that's right.
Let me introduce you guys to
the MVPs of today's operation!
The extremist Joui, and the Odd Jobs!
Everybody clap!
Who are you calling an MVP?!
Thanks to you knuckleheads we're now associates of a bunch of crooks!
I have to thank you again, Shinpachi, Miss China.
I never thought you two would join our alliance.
Don't touch me, gorilla.
Well, y'know, I heard you two had split up,
but you've got the team back together? That's great!
So, is this guy a new member?
[Comment]This is how he actually appears
So, is this guy a new member?
Looks kind of lame, like the other guy.
Shinpachi, Leader! I can't accept this.
This fellow could never fill Gintoki's role.
I can't allow it! I must say no.
Why do these clowns think I need their approval?
Hey, people, did you actually check this guy out?
If he's gonna be filling in for the Boss,
he'd better have killed more than
a handful of people, he'd better have.
I don't wanna hear crap from
you, you phony Battousai.
Don't get the wrong idea.
This guy isn't replacing anyone.
And I don't intend to re-form
the Odd Jobs with anyone.
I see.
W-Well, Shinpachi, how is Tae?
She's not married or anything, is she? I'm still in the clear, right?
Has she gotten even more beautiful?!
Well? Well?!
Did you not hear me when I told you to keep your hands off me?
Sh-Shinpachi?
Hey, Shinpachi!
I'm going home too.
I'll see you later, if I feel like it.
Old wounds still haven't healed, huh?
Everyone else has changed, but
those two are the same as ever.
I kind of figured that was the case, though.
Can't really blame them.
We got our bosses back.
But their boss is gone.
It's been five years since he passed away.
I don't know how to face him in the afterlife.
I was unable to protect what he left behind.
Do you know what he was working on before he died?
The white plague.
No, it didn't have that name, at the time.
Do you know how Gintoki knew about the white plague
before it had begun to spread throughout the world?
It was because he had met
the source, fifteen years ago.
Fifteen years ago?
Yes. During the Joui War...
Fifteen years ago...
In an attempt to prevent the war from dragging on,
the government took on the
services of a mercenary army.
They would cause drastic collateral damage.
Entire worlds were ruined when they joined the battlefield.
This led their very existence to become a taboo,
hidden by the shadows of time.
The abominable force that had earned the name "World Destroyers"...
The Enmi.
Were you in the Joui War as well?
I know about those guys.
They used some kind of magic to cause a plague,
and apparently decimated the Joui patriots.
But once it was exposed, their magic
was really a bunch of extremely tiny robots, called nanomachines.
And the nanomachines that they wielded
caused the same kind of effects that
what we call the "white plague" does.
Have you been investigating Gintoki's death?
Well, I was part of the police back in the day.
Of course I'm gonna investigate
if someone is presumed dead.
That can't be. They were all...
I know that they were all wiped out, back then.
But what if there was a survivor?
You got any proof of that?
I don't know.
But I'm certain Gintoki must
have discovered something.
That was why he had taken action before the white plague had begun to spread.
He actually came to reminisce about the old days with me, which was not like him at all.
I should have known something was wrong!
You're not the only one who should have borne this burden, Gintoki!
What is it?!
Kyubei?
It's good to see you again. Have you been well?
Miss Tsukuyo...
I see you're a bit taller now.
What's with you two?
First time I've seen you a while, and you've cut your hair. Did someone break your heart?
I see you haven't changed at all, Sarutobi.
I know, right? A kunoichi's best weapon is her beauty.
Indeed. Your skin is only slightly rougher.
Who are you saying has rough skin?! Like you two are any better!
Unlike you two, I'm really popular,
so I've never had any reason to cut my hair.
I've never had my heart broken, for that matter.
I see. That's true.
Tae, you haven't changed either.
Really?
My sight's not very good anymore,
and Shin has been taking care of my hair.
Does it look all right?
Yes.
You look exactly the same.
You're the same as you've always been, Tae.
Beautiful and dignified, but sincere.
And, y'know, you're dignified.
She said that already.
And you're also beautiful.
She said that too.
And y'know... You're still rude, and two-faced.
What was that for, Tsukky?!
I was just expressing my honest feelings!
Don't think those kind of things! Read the mood! Even if you mean it, don't say it!
Uh, that's actually way worse than anything I said.
I haven't laughed like this in a long time.
We always used to get together like this, didn't we?
But...
Now that Edo's become like this, we don't see each other as much.
The same goes for Shin and Kagura.
Even when they're together, they avoid looking at each other.
They know that seeing each other look sad will just make them feel worse.
Looking at each other reminds them of the old days.
And of him.
Honestly...
I wonder where he is, and what he's up to?
That silly oaf...
If he doesn't come back soon,
we're all going to drift apart.
If he doesn't come back soon...
I won't get to say goodbye.
I wish I could see it again.
The three of them, smiling together.
Tae...
Sarutobi!
What the hell are you babbling about?
You can't die like this!
Get on your feet, bitch! You frigid sadistic psycho!
Stop it, Sarutobi!
Get on your feet, bitch! You frigid sadistic psycho!
Get on your feet, bitch! You frigid sadistic psycho!
Do you know why I've tried to
look the same all these years?
It's because I know he'll come back one day!
And when he's back, I want to meet him like nothing's changed since he's been gone!
But you're gonna die?!
You're going to leave him, leave all of us, and just die?!
I won't let you.
You can't die until you see Gin and I get married!
Now come on! Say something back!
You never took this kind of abuse before! So say something back like you used to!
Say something!
Are you listening to me?!
Quit your stupid yelping already.
You just hit puberty or something, you stupid broad?
Yo. What's up, bitches?
What's wrong? You're all looking kinda shocked.
Oh.
Who are you?!
Where do you get off interrupting that
heartbreaking scene, you cosplay freak?!
Let's bind this cretin and toss him in the river.
Gi...Gin?
Is it... really you?
Tae...
Yes, Big Sis. It's him.
He's come back.
Big Sis, now we can work
together as the Odd Jobs again.
You two, what are you—
What took you so long, Odd Jobs?
Kondo?
Don't you worry, Tae.
We're all here.
This... isn't a dream?
Yeah.
So, you don't need to worry anymore.
Your future...
Our future...
This world's future...
We'll change it for the better.
Thank you.
Tsk. I don't know how you tracked me down, but you shouldn't have bothered.
Pfft, you were crying.
You were crying, too!
I wasn't crying for your sake!
What was that?!
Nyah, you stupid crybaby four-eyes!
Hey, look, I don't really care,
but I thought you were through with
comebacks and saying "aru" all the time?
Shut up!
See you.
Oh, look at that.
There's a familiar old face.
How about it?
Care for a drink?
Buy me a drink, old man. You're the one who dragged me out here.
Sorry, but I'm already buying for two.
You'll have to ask him.
So, how do you like this world?
I don't ever wanna come back to the future.
The old men are all full of tricks, and the old ladies now think they're real clever.
You seriously went through all this crap to let me know the state the world's in?
I didn't expect the breakthrough I spent five years building to get wrecked though.
So, you figure out a plan to change the future yet?
I dunno. Forget the future,
I'm worried about ghosts from the past now.
Saving the future is bound to be rough if you can't even figure out how you died.
Well, the Time Thief's main systems are intact.
You try and wrap things up
before I finish the repairs.
Hey man, you brought me here but don't have a clue what I need to do?
Nope.
Besides, I'm not the one who
brought you into this future.
It was you, yourself.
Before you vanished, you asked me
to build the Time Thief.
If you didn't come back, I was
to use it to bring you here.
So that you could save the world
that you didn't manage to before.
You're one selfish bastard!
You realize how much trouble building this thing was? You better pay me back.
In the future, of course.
You're a real pain, aren't you? Dead or alive.
Looks like the only one you have
to blame for this is yourself.
I don't blame you.
You might not have been able to save the world.
But...
You at least saved my world.
Are you goofing off first thing in the morning?
You haven't forgotten the promise you made with my sister and us have you?
Yeah! Look sharp! We're off to work!
I owe you one, so leave the rest to me.
Let's go.
It wasn't just you guys he made the promise with!
We're going to track the Enmi, the root of all this trouble, and save Tae!
It'll be fine.
I'm sure we can make it in time, Shinpachi.
Let's move!
Try and keep up.
After all that searching, we couldn't even find an e, much less any Enmi.
What will you do when you find them?
Isn't it obvious? Whoop their ass and stomp 'em—
Not that.
I mean you.
When it's all over, what will you do?
Head home. Back to where I came from.
There are people waiting for me there, after all.
You really are just like him.
You show up and re-form the Odd Jobs, then disappear when you feel like it.
Will Gin come back once everything's taken care of?
Once the virus is gone, and Edo is back to normal, will Gin come back?
Or are we all going to split up
again, after you're gone?
Oh, come on, really?
You were basically telling me to eat shit when I asked about working together before.
What's the matter? Feeling lonely?
You want me to stick around with the Odd Jobs until good old Gin comes back?
Actually, that's probably a bad idea.
I mean, the thought of you and
me under one roof, Gura...
I'll be honest, it was hard enough when you were Little Miss Kagura,
but now you're just Miss Kagura.
Two adults, living together.
I mean, the neighbors are gonna talk, and if there are any slip-ups the PTA is gonna—
Chin!
Just kidding.
Don't get the wrong idea, okay?
I was just playing around. Why,
did your heart start to throb?
Okay, that was not a "playing around" kind of kick!
I don't think his heart went faster, I think it's stopped!
Chin! Come back!
I'm not gonna care when you're gone.
If you're around, it'll mess up the balance in the Odd Jobs when Gin comes back.
And I don't need the two of you fighting over a prize like me..
Once you're done, you should
leave and never come back.
You don't need to worry. I'll tell Gin.
That for a little while, there was someone as worthless as him in the Odd Jobs.
We'll remember that there was
another member of the Odd Jobs.
So, you should...
Huh?
No, no, this isn't one of those, it's not like I'm into that sort of thing!
Chin... isn't that—
Old man?
Hey Gin—err, Chin m'boy!
We've got real trouble.
The Time Thief was stolen?!
Yeah. I screwed up.
The main repairs were all done, but then...
Who the hell could have done it?
I've been monitoring the Time Thief's visual feed.
I'm gonna send you the feed.
It's him!
I've got the bastard's location on GPS. Get to him before it's too late!
Where is he?!
Where the hell is he?!
In the ruins of the Terminal.
We don't have much time.
Let's split up and find him.
But—
Listen to me. If you find him, call for me.
Don't try anything crazy.
Let's go!
So, we finally meet.
Kinda took us a while to get to this point.
All this, just to finish up something from fifteen years ago.
But it's just about over.
I might have lost sight of it before, but I think I'm gonna take it back this time.
My future!
Even if it means,
I have to crush your future to do it!
This guy is reading my moves.
You bastard!
Who the hell are you?!
Keeping quiet, huh?
I'll just have to make you barf up
an explanation for the crap you pulled!
He knows all my moves!
In that case—
Well done, White Devil.
I figured I'd need to play dead to nail you.
It's been a long time.
But now it's finally over. I owe you one.
I've been waiting for you to show up,
as I watched the world fall apart.
This whole time...
I'm the only one who could kill me, right?
Y-You're...!
It's just what it looks like.
I'm you, five years from now.
What happened to the world is because of me.
Or rather, it's going to be because of you.
You've been cursed by them, ever since you struck them down.
The seed for the virus that's going to destroy the world, that is.
<i>But your monstrous hands...
<i>In time, they will even take those you hold dear,
<i>and crush them to oblivion.
<i>That is the price a demon pays.
<i>Devouring both beloved and hated,
<i>you will be left to howl in solitude, alone in this world.
That bastard we killed was just a container.
The Enmi are really the nanomachines they control.
When we broke the container,
they infected our body, rebuilt their core,
and spent ten years evolving while absorbing info about human DNA.
And after manufacturing a virus
that humanity couldn't cure,
it spread out from our body, into the entire world.
By the time I realized what was
going on, it was too late.
I was barely able to keep my personality intact,
and I tried to cut my guts open
to take him down with me.
But it wasn't my body anymore.
I couldn't do anything. I was just a living corpse.
I just had to stand there and watch as the world fell apart, because of me.
Understand now?
I called myself to this era to destroy the person who ruined the world: me.
I'm going to be gone from this world now.
But, in order to free the world from our curse,
I set everything up. The rest is on you.
Sakata Gintoki...
I'm the only one who can kill me.
I see.
So for the last fifteen years, I shouldn't have existed.
Where am I supposed to go?
To the beginning. During the Joui War.
However, with my remaining energy, this will be a one-way trip.
It's not like I have any reason to come back, right?
You will have to defeat Master Gintoki shortly after the battle with the Enmi,
before the nanomachines fully take root.
There is no other way to save this world.
So I have to take him down, and myself with him.
However, once that is done, Sakata Gintoki will cease to exist from that point on.
Sorry guys.
Looks like I'm not coming back to you, after all.
Try and get along without me.
Shinpachi. Kagura.
Where are you going?!
Don't you know?
This film... There's no point if
you only have one of them.
It only counts if you have all three. It's a three-in-one collectible!
We kept them this whole time.
As worthless as it might be, it was the last memory we had of him.
We thought that one day, we'd have the complete set again.
But now...
But now...!
Why are you leaving again?!
After we finally got to see you again!
You're going to leave us,
leave everyone behind and run off somewhere?!
Gin!
Dammit. This piece of snot turned out to be useless.
A three-piece set, huh?
I'm sure your collection will be complete again.
I know we'll meet again.
So I'm gonna hang onto this.
I hope you guys will remember me.
Gin!
...okay? Are you okay?
Please, snap out of it!
This... This is!
It can't be! Did Gin change the past?!
Then where is he?!
Where could he be?
Hijikata!
Hijikata, have you seen Gin?
Do you know where he might be?
Huh? Gin?
Who's that?
For that matter, who are you two?
How do you know me?
Master Gintoki, please forgive me.
I was created to change the future, for the sake of your future self.
Thus, I must change the future
by any means necessary.
Even if it means your existence being erased.
But even then, I—
I'm not gonna be erased.
Even if everyone else forgets,
I won't forget.
So can you let them know?
"It was a lot of fun running
the Odd Jobs with you guys."
No. Not like this!
Gin!
Sakata Gintoki of the Odd Jobs...
is on the battlefield!
We...
We don't want this future!
No!
Gin!
Why am I crying?
Why?
Why?
It has been fifteen years since that day.
Now, I act not to save the world,
but to save you.
With the data that I still possess.
And that's a wrap.
Yeah. It's all done.
You've taken it back, that crappy future you cooked up.
Dammit man, that was close! You could have actually killed me!
Hold on a second!
Why am I—why is good old Gin—a MADAO?!
Well, yeah. You are a MADAO, right?
Okay, maybe in the future!
But in this time, good old Gin is still...
Wait, why the hell are you even here?!
I figured you'd be lonely all by yourself,
so I brought some booze.
Although the other Gin ended up drinking most of it.
The two of you really are the same guy.
A little bit of booze, and you're willing to party hard with a complete stranger like me.
You're probably hung over
off your ass right about now.
But y'know, I was feeling kinda bad, so I figured I'd fight in your place.
Wait. Hold on.
Hung over?
Wait, then that means...
I'm not actually going to show up?!
Then doesn't that mean...?
Wouldn't it mean—?!
The Enmi are all freaking alive?!
What the hell is wrong with you?!
I came all the way back here to change the future!
Hey, look over there! It's the White Devil!
We're taking his head!
What am I supposed to do now?!
Forget changing it, the future's totally ruined!
The future's already changed.
That's why I'm here.
I get to look at your stupid face, all the way from the future that you saved.
The future I saved?
That's right.
That's why we're here.
You created a peaceful future.
And we're going to wreck it.
You gave your life to protect our future.
But we chose...
To bring you back to that future!
Y-You guys... do you really think that's possible?
You think that we can—
We can do it.
You are no longer fighting alone.
Whether it's a cursed past or future...
The Odd Jobs will be there.
Y-You guys...
I promised you...
That I would make sure your feelings—
your spirit—would be passed on to them.
Tama?! You—
It was you?!
Hey, Gin m'boy! You get my delivery?
You bunch have already overcome a cursed past, and future!
Gintoki! You're not standing on some linear rail from the past to the future!
You're standing in Kabuki-cho.
So get your butt back here and pay me my rent!
And your tab with me!
Bring a present!
You people...
Thanks to you dumbasses, I can't see a tomorrow or a yesterday, forward or behind me.
I have no idea what's gonna happen.
But there is one thing I can see thanks to you all.
The place where a dumbass like me belongs!
Let's go, Gin!
Yeah.
I'll follow you guys anywhere.
Where'd they come from?!
Take them all down!
Bring it on!
If you think you can kill the Odd Jobs,
then get your asses over here and try it!
Reinforcements!
[SIGN] Forward!
Sister!
Shouldn't you be in a hospital bed?
I remembered a debt that I needed to repay.
I don't remember you owing me a damn thing.
After all, I might have saved the future,
but I also brought the craziest
chick I know back to life!
You've been saved from hell yourself, haven't you?
You, mister demon that destroyed the entire world.
Well, I'm glad to see your
smart mouth is still intact!
Thanks to you!
Look out!
Tae!
You'll be infected again!
That's what you're here for?!
Infection?!
Miss Tae, what **** were you infected by?!
Not that kind of infection!
Gintoki...
If you ever put Tae through that again...
I will never forgive you.
And if you ever abandon us again...
We will never forgive you.
Kyubei...
She's right.
The villain who destroyed the world, and the savior who defended it.
When it comes to him, they're basically the same thing. But this time...
Whether we fall or stand tall, it will be at your side.
Sacchan!
Tsukky!
You kept me waiting, you fool.
You were taking so long, we jumped through time to get you.
And yet, you won't actually face me.
Did you two get old—
I've had enough of looking at your stupid face!
So don't get cocky!
Get moving.
We'll handle things here. The rest is up to you.
Gin!
You'll come back this time, right?
I'm already back.
I'm so stupid.
I was supposed to greet Gin looking the same as ever!
Yes.
But I doubt we could even face him or see him off in this state.
I think he's not the only one who's finally back.
Everyone, welcome home.
Impossible.
I thought the White Devil and the Kiheitai were supposedly their strongest forces.
But no matter who they are,
they will not escape our curse.
They will be consumed by our world destroyer's scourge!
Shit! The plague!
I'm afraid that won't work.
A samurai does not fall prey to the same trick twice.
[SIGN] So cool!!
A samurai does not fall prey to the same trick twice.
A samurai does not fall prey to the same trick twice.
Man, so much for the Shinsengumi.
Here we are working with the Joui patriots against the government, again.
Zaki's got a point.
I'd much rather be hunting down some of the big-shot patriots from this era.
Don't worry about it.
Once we finish them, we'll haul the lot of them in.
Why the hell else would we come
all this way back in time?
Right, Mr. White Devil?
Well damn, you guys went back in time just to keep acting like government stooges.
Fair enough.
If we take care of all this, fix the future, and you somehow still remember me,
you can arrest me or whatever you want.
We couldn't forget about you if we wanted to.
Yeah.
Whether it's the depths of hell, or the fringes of time...
We're going to hunt you down!
Don't let them spread the plague!
Gintoki...
We have lost many comrades, and suffered because of it.
I thought that a time like that would never come again.
But you... We...
We have both ended up here, yet again.
Gintoki!
We will clear you a path!
So don't worry about the future or the past,
fight for the present, where you are here with us!
Cut a path for that!
There you stand, soaked in blood.
The spitting image of a demon.
I see. You're the White Devil.
After failing to defend your comrades, you choose the path of carnage.
But your monstrous hands...
In time, they will even take those you hold dear, and crush them to oblivion!
That is the price a demon pays.
Devouring both beloved and hated,
you will be left to howl in solitude, alone in this world,
White Devil!
You're right.
This is all because of my payment.
The plague... How can you move?!
No matter how much it is,
I'll bear the burdens I've earned.
And I'll take your crappy curses
as many times as it takes.
How can you resist the plague?!
You can't possibly already have
been infected, can you?!
You... What are you?!
No matter how many times you people curse me,
no matter how many times
I end up destroying the world...
<i>My</i> world isn't going anywhere.
Your little curse...
The hands I'd crush the world with...
Those fools will tear it apart, every time!
He's got multiple cores?!
White Devil, to think you'd go as far as to shield your comrades with your own flesh.
But your curse remains unbroken.
You will not save anything!
You will be forced to bear witness to the loss of all that you cherish in an undying body!
Until this world itself is gone!
Gin—!
Was that...?
Was that...?
[SIGN] Are we safe!?
It can't be.
Gin?
Can't save anything?
No.
Even a dirty sword like mine,
can still protect something!
Gin? Was there...?
You just imagined it.
I guess you're right!
It's all over.
Yeah.
I can't imagine how this is going to change the future.
But for now, Gin's not going
to spread the white plague.
The rest should work itself out, right?
Not knowing what happens sounds right to me.
That's how the future is supposed to be, anyway.
No matter what future awaits us,
I'm certain it will be okay, with all of you in it.
That is an important piece of data I have discovered.
And so, we no longer need the time machine!
Hang on.
Uh...
Hey! How are we supposed to get back without that thing, Tama?!
Put a sock in it, Yamazaki.
I know you didn't get any screen time,
but quit trying to force your way in just because you didn't get any screen time.
Don't say it twice! And that's not the problem!
I'm pretty sure it is.
See? You barely showed up,
you're now half transparent.
What?
What, for real?! What is this?!
By altering the past, the technology for time travel no longer exists.
So we no longer exist.
We can now return home without a time machine.
Think of it as saving energy!
Tama?! This seems like a violent way to go home!
Hey, hold on!
I wasn't told about disappearing!
I wanted to change the past so I never met Gin, so that I wouldn't get laid off!
He said something really nasty at the end there!
He left everybody with a bad taste in their mouth!
Dammit, after we went to the trouble of coming all the way back here.
Katsura! I'm gonna bust you
while I have the chance!
Unfortunately, I will be disappearing
before the rest of you!
Adios! 'Til we meet again!
Huh?
I'm sorry! I kinda stopped disappearing partway through!
What is going on here, exactly?!
All right. You wait right here.
In fifteen years, I'll be back to lock you up.
Hang on a moment here, Hijikata! Take me with you!
All right, you rest right here Hijikata.
I'll be back in 15 years to dig you a grave.
You bastard! You're gonna
pay for this in fifteen years!
That's it!
If this is all never going to happen anyway,
then now is my only chance!
Tae!
Young Master!
Tae!
I promise, in fifteen years I'll still love you!
You might have gotten taller, but you're still best in gothic lolita—
If none of this is going to happen...
You can't take murder back!
Bye now!
You can't take murder back!
You already killed them before they could disappear!
Until we meet again.
You already killed them before they could disappear!
You already killed them before they could disappear!
No!
After finally seeing Gin again, we have to say goodbye already?!
That's it. Before this is over,
at least give me a goodbye smooch!
I'll quietly disappear if you do!
That's okay, right?! This is the
Final Chapter anyway, right?!
Uh, sorry, but...
Your head's already gone ahead to its final chapter, so can you just disappear completely?
What happened to my head?!
This is crap! Gimme my head back!
Don't worry. I have your head right here.
So settle down, and let's head back.
Okay, that is not reassuring!
I'm not disappearing! You're making me disappear, figuratively!
We'll go on ahead.
This is jealousy, isn't it?!
Do you want me to start selling your body down in Yoshiwara?
Goodbye.
Hey, wait!
It's my fault! Forgive me!
Gimme my body back!
Everybody's gone, huh?
Gin. Shinpachi. Sadaharu.
Let me get a good look at you.
There's no guarantee that we'll work as the Odd Jobs in the new future.
So this might be the end.
I want to get a good look at you all!
Kagura...
I see.
All right, look close.
So that we can meet again, some day.
Look real close, so no matter how far we're
separated, we can track each other down.
Gin...
Gin...
I know we'll meet again.
No matter where or when,
I'll be in Kabuki-cho, working under the Odd Jobs sign.
It's a promise!
I'm sure...
I'm sure we will.
Yeah.
It's a promise.
Why did only my glasses disappear?!
Hey. Let's go.
Yeah.
[Lyrics] Break out from this rusty story
[Lyrics] Standing dyed by the sunset
[Lyrics] I see my tiny shadow on the road
[Lyrics] Fade out in the hustle and bustle
[Lyrics] Starting to fit into it all
[Lyrics] I've thought about the future in my way
[Lyrics] Bring me down I wanna break loose
[Lyrics] Bring me down just ranting about it all
[Lyrics] Bring me down what the hell am I doing?
[Lyrics] I want to burn out while I'm at my brightest
[Lyrics] Shouting out at the days that just passed me by
[Lyrics] I want to run down a pitch black street
[Lyrics] Ah, I want to just throw everything I've got at it
[Lyrics] All for the sake of the life I'm living now
[Lyrics] We don't need this kind of thing
[Lyrics] Even if people say we're fools, or hate us
[Lyrics] Even if we're not happy or loved
[Lyrics] That sounds like a better fit, that's about right
[Lyrics] I want to burn out while I'm at my brightest
[Lyrics] Shouting out at the days that just passed me by
[Lyrics] I want to run down a pitch black street
[Lyrics] Ah, I want to just throw everything I've got at it
[Lyrics] All for the sake of the life I'm living now
[Lyrics] Let's go out! Open my mind
[Lyrics] Let's go! There's a sweet dream at the other side
[Lyrics] I'm about to break out of my cage
[Lyrics] This rusty key isn't holding back my beat
[Lyrics] By the time I realized what happened,
there was no going back
[Lyrics] The days that are all gone now
[Chorus] (Hey baby why?)
[Lyrics] All seem so vividly colorful somehow
[Chorus] (I want to cry...)
[Lyrics] I don't want to let my fears beat me
[Lyrics] I don't want to run from fate...
"You're not alone"
[Lyrics] I'll be with you, no matter
[Lyrics] How sad the dream might seem
[Lyrics] I'll be there to reach out to your tears, baby
[Lyrics] I pray, "Believe"
[Lyrics] It'll cut apart your cold, dark memories
Come on, Gin! What are you doing?!
[SIGN] Sugar content
I told you we had a job today, didn't I?!
He totally overslept again!
What, seriously?! We're gonna be late!
