"Psycho Killer"
I can`t seem to face up to the facts
I’m tense and nervous and I... can’t relax.
I can’t sleep, cause my bed’s on fire.
Don’t touch me I’m a real live wire.
Psycho Killer
Qu'est-ce que c'est? [What is it?]
fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa better
Run run run run run run run away
You start a conversation you can't even finish it.
You're talking a lot, but you're not saying anything.
When I have nothing to say, my lips are sealed.
Say something once, why say it again?
Psycho Killer,
Qu'est-ce que c'est? [What is it?]
fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa better
Run run run run run run away
OH OH OH
Ce que j'ai fait, ce soir-là [What I did that night]
Ce qu'elle a dit, ce soir-là [What she said that night]
Réalisant mon espoir [Making my hope come true]
Je me lance vers la gloire ... okay [I hurl myself toward glory]
YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA
We are vain and we are blind
I hate people when they're not polite
Psycho Killer,
Qu'est-ce que c'est? [What is it?]
fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa better
Run run run run run run away
OH OH OH
"Heaven"
Everyone is trying to get to the bar.
The name of the bar, the bar is called Heaven.
The band in Heaven they play my favorite song.
They play it one more time, they play it all night long.
Oh heaven, heaven is a place, a place where nothing, nothing ever happens.
Heaven is a place, a place where nothing, nothing ever happens.
There is a party, everyone is there.
Everyone will leave at exactly the same time.
When this partys over it will start again.
It will not be any different, it will be exactly the same.
Heaven is a place, a place where nothing, nothing ever happens.
Heaven is a place, a place where nothing, nothing ever happens.
When this kiss is over it will start again.
It will not be any different, it will be exactly
the same.
It's hard to imagine that nothing at all
could be so exciting, could be this much fun.
Oh, heaven, heaven is a place, a place where nothing, nothing ever happens.
Oh, heaven, heaven is a place, a place where nothing, nothing ever happens.
"Thank You For Sending Me An Angel"
Oh, Oh, baby you can walk, you can talk just like me.
You can walk, you can talk just like me.
You can look, tell me what you see.
You can look, you won't see nothing like me
if you look around the world.
Oh, baby you can walk, you can talk just like me.
With a little practive, you can walk like, talk just like me.
If that's what you wanna do.
Well, you can look, you'll walk in circles around me.
But first, I'll walk in circles 'round you.
But first, I'll walk around the world.
I'm walking 'round the world
I ... you can.
But first, show me what you do.
"Found a Job"
"Damn that television ... what a bad picture!"
"Don't get upset, it's not a major disaster."
"There's nothing on tonight," he said, "I don't know
what's the matter!"
"Nothing's ever on", she said, "so ... I don't know
why you bother."
We've heard this little scene, we've heard it many times.
People fighting over little things, and wasting precious time.
They might be better off ... I think ... the way it seems to me.
Making up their own shows, which might be better than T.V.
Judy's in the bedroom, inventing situations.
Bob is on the street today, scouting up locations.
They've enlisted all their family.
They've enlisted all their friends.
It helped saved their relationship,
And made it work again ...
Their show gets real high ratings, they think they have a hit.
There might even be a spinoff, but they're not sure 'bout that.
Just look at Bob and Judy; they're happy as can be,
Inventing situations, putting them on T.V.
Judy's in the bedroom, inventing situations,
Bob is on the street today, he's scouting up locations.
They've enlisted all their family.
They've enlisted all their friends.
It helped save their relationship,
And made it work again ...
"Slippery People"
What about the time? You were fallin' over
Fell on your face. You must be having fun
Walk lightly! Think of a time.
You'd best believe, This thing is real
Put away that gun. This part is simple
Try to recognize what is in your mind
God help us! Help us loose our minds
These slippery people, help us understand
What's the matter with him? - (He's alright!)
How do ya know? - (The lord won't mind..)
Don't know no games - (He's alright!)
Love from the bottom to the top!
Turn like a wheel! - (He's alright!)
See for yourself! - (The lord won't mind..)
We're gonna move! - (Right now!)
Turn like a wheel inside a wheel!
I remember when Sittin' in the tub
Pulled out the plug The water was runnin' out
Cool down Stop acting crazy
They're gonna leave And we'll be on our own
Seven times five They were living creatures
Watch 'em come to life Right before your eyes
Backsliding! How do you do?
These slippery people Gonna see you through
What's the matter with him? - (He's alright!)
I seen his face - (The lord won't mind..)
How do you know? - (He's alright!)
And then we're going to the top!
Turn like a wheel! - (He's alright!)
See for yourself! - (The lord won't mind..)
We're gonna move! - (Right now!)
Turn like a wheel inside a wheel!
What's the matter with him? - (He's alright!)
The lord won't mind..
Alright! Love from the bottom to the top!
Alright! The lord won't mind..
Right now! Turn like a wheel inside a wheel!
"Burning Down the House"
Watch out you might get what you're after
Cool baby strange but not a stranger
I'm an ordinary guy
Burning down the house
Hold tight wait 'til the party's over
Hold tight we're in for nasty weather
There has got to be a way
Burning down the house
Here's your ticket pack your bag; time for jumpin' overboard
Transportation is here
Close enough but not too far, maybe you know where you are
Fightin' fire with fire
All wet yeah you might need a raincoat
Shakedown thieves walking in broad daylight
Three hundred sixty five degrees
Burning down the house
It was once upon a place sometimes I listen to myself
Gonna come in first place
People on their way to work say baby what did you expect
Gonna burst into flame
My house S'out of the ordinary
That's right Don't want to hurt nobody
Some things sure can sweep me off my feet
Burning down the house
No visible means of support and you have not seen nothing yet
Everything's stuck together
I don't know what you expect staring into the TV set
Fighting fire with fire
"Life During Wartime"
Heard of a van that is loaded with weapons
packed up and ready to go
Heard of some gravesites, out by the highway
a place where nobody knows
The sound of gunfire, off in the distance
I'm getting used to it now
Lived in a brownstone, lived in the ghetto
I've lived all over this town
This ain't no party, this ain't no disco
this ain't no fooling around
No time for dancing, or lovey dovey
I ain't got time for that now
Transmit the message, to the receiver
hope for an answer some day
I got three passports, couple of visas
don't even know my real name
High on a hillside, trucks are loading
everything's ready to roll
I sleep in the daytime, I work in the nightime
I might not ever get home
This ain't no party, this ain't no disco
this ain't no fooling around
This ain't no mudd club, or C. B. G. B.
I ain't got time for that now
This ain't no party, this ain't no disco
this ain't no fooling around
No time for dancing, or lovey dovey
I ain't got time for that now
Heard about Houston? Heard about Detroit?
Heard about Pittsburgh, PA?
You oughta know not to stand by the window
somebody might see you up there
I got some groceries, some peanut butter
to last a couple of days
But I ain't got no speakers
ain't got no headphones
ain't got no records to play
Why stay in college? Why go to night school?
Gonna be different this time?
Can't write a letter, can't send a postcard
I can't write nothing at all
This ain't no party, this ain't no disco
this ain't no fooling around
I'd love you hold you, I'd like to kiss you
I ain't got no time for that now
Trouble in transit, got through the roadblock
we blended in with the crowd
We got computers, we're tapping phone lines
I know that ain't allowed
We dress like students, we dress like housewives
or in a suit and a tie
I changed my hairstyle so many times now
don't know what I look like!
You make me shiver, I feel so tender
we make a pretty good team
Don't get exhausted, I'll do some driving
you ought to get you some sleep
Burned all my notebooks, what good are notebooks?
They won't help me survive
My chest is aching, burns like a furnace
the burning keeps me alive
"Making Flippy Floppy"
Nothing can come between us
Nothin gets you down
Nothing strikes your fancy
Nothing turns you on
You don't have to wait for more instructions
No one makes a monkey out of me
We lie on our backs, feet in the air
Rest and relaxation, rocket to my brain
Snap into position
Bounce till you ache
Step out of line
And you end up in jail
Doctor Doctor
We have nothing in our pockets
We continue
But we have nothing left to offer
Faces pressed against the window
Hey! they are just my friends
Check this out don't be slick
Break our backs it goes like this . . .
We are born without eyesight
We are born without sin
And our mama protects us
From the cold and the rain
We're in no hurry
sugar and spice
We sing in the darkness
We open our eyes (open up)
I can't believe it
And people are strange
Our president's crazy
Did you hear what he said
Business and pleasure
Lie right to your face
Divide it in sections
And then give it away
There are no big secrets
Don't believe what you read
We have great big bodies
We got great big heads
Run-a-run-a-run it all together
Check it out - still don't make no sense
Makin' flippy floppy
Tryin to do my best
Lock the door
We kill the beast
Kill it!
"Swamp"
Now lemme tell you a story
The devil he has a plan
A bag a' bones in his pocket
Got anything you want
No dust and no rocks
The whole thing is over
All these beauties in solid motion
All those beauties, gonna swallow you up
Hi hi hi hi hi,
One time too many
Too far to go
I- We come to take you home
And when they split those atoms
It's hotter than the sun
Blood is a special substance
They gonna pray for that man
So wake up young lovers
The whole thing is over
Watch but touch monkeys
All that blood, gonna swallow you whole
Hi hi hi hi hi,
Hi hi hi hi hi,
So soft hard feelings
No tricks lets go
How many people do you think I am?
Pretend I am somebody else
U can pretend I'm and old millionaire,
a millionaire washing his hands
Rattle the bones, dreams that stick out,
a medical chart on the wall
Soft violence and hands touch your throat,
ev'ryone wants to explode
And when your hands get dirty,
nobody knows you at all
Don't have a window to slip out of,
lights on, nobody home
Click click - see ya later - beta beta - no time to rest
Pika pika- risky business - all that blood - will never cover that mess.
Let’s go
"What a Day That Was"
Well, I'm dressed up so nice, an' I'm doin' my best
An' I'm startin' over; I'm startin' over in another place
Lemme tell you a story, big chief with a golden crown
He's got rings on his fingers, and then he walks up, up to the throne
He's makin' shapes with his hands, an' don't choo dare sit back
Now don't choo dare sit down, and don't choo dare speak up!
Ho ho and on the first day, we had everything we could stand
Ooh ooh ooh who could've asked for more?
And on the second day, there was nothing else left to do
Ooh ooh ooh what a day that was, mmm wah!
Well there are 50,000 beggars roaming in the streets
And they have lost all their possessions; they have nothing left to eat
Down come a bolt of lightning, start an electrical storm
Starts a chain reaction, go pull a fire alarm
I said that I'm dreaming of a city, it was my own invention
I put the wheels in motion, a time for big decisions, ho ho
And on the first day, we had everything we could stand
Ooh ooh ooh and then we let it fall
And on the second day, there was nothing else left at all
Ooh ooh ooh what a day that was, oh, ho
Oh a day that was…Oh oh ho ho, and that's the way it goes
There's a million ways - to get things done
There's a million ways - to make things work out.
Well I'm going right through and the light came down
And they're roundin' 'em up from all over town, ha ha
They're movin' forward & backwards, there movin' backwards & front
And they're enjoying themselves, moving in ev'ry direction
And if you feel like you're in a whirlpool, you feel like going home
You feel like talking to someone
Who knows the differences between right and wrong, oh
And on the first day, we had everything we could stand
Ooh ooh ooh and then we let it fall
And on the second day, there was nothing else left at all
Ooh ooh ooh what a day that was, oh, oh
We’re going boom boom boom, and that’s the way we live
And in a great big room, and that’s the way we live
"This Must Be the Place (Naive Melody)"
Home is where I want to be
Pick me up and turn me round
I feel numb - born with a weak heart
I guess I must be having fun
The less we say about it the better
Make it up as we go along
Feet on the ground head in the sky
It's ok I know nothing's wrong . . nothing
Hi yo I got plenty of time
Hi yo you got light in your eyes
And you're standing here beside me
I love the passing of time
Never for money
Always for love
Cover up and say goodnight . . . say goodnight
Home - is where I want to be
But I guess I'm already there
I come home - she lifted up her wings
Guess that this must be the place
I can't tell one from another
Did I find you, or you find me?
There was a time Before we were born
If someone asks, this is where I'll be . . . where I'll be
Hi yo We drift in and out
Hi yo sing into my mouth
Out of all those kinds of people
You got a face with a view
I'm just an animal looking for a home
Share the same space for a minute or two
And you love me till my heart stops
Love me till I'm dead
Eyes that light up, eyes look through you
Cover up the blank spots
Hit me on the head Ah ooh
"Once in a Lifetime"
And you may find yourself living in a shotgun shack
And you may find yourself in another part of the world
And you may find yourself behind the wheel of a large automobile
And you may find yourself in a beautiful house, with a beautiful wife
And you may ask yourself, well...How did I get here?
Letting the days go by, let the water hold me down
Letting the days go by, water flowing underground
Into the blue again, after the money's gone
Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground.
And you may ask yourself, how do I work this?
And you may ask yourself, where is that large automobile?
And you may tell yourself; this is not my beautiful house!
And you may tell yourself; this is not my beautiful wife!
Letting the days go by, let the water hold me down
Letting the days go by, water flowing underground
Into the blue again, after the money's gone
Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground.
Same as it ever was...Same as it ever was...Same as it ever was...
Same as it ever was...Same as it ever was...Same as it ever was...
Same as it ever was...Same as it ever was...
Water dissolving...and water removing
There is water at the bottom of the ocean
Remove the water, carry the water
Remove the water from the bottom of the ocean!
Letting the days go by, let the water hold me down
Letting the days go by, water flowing underground
Into the blue again, after the money's gone
Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground.
Into the blue again, after the money's gone
Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground.
Into the blue again, after the money's gone
Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground.
And you may ask yourself, what is that beautiful house?
And you may ask yourself, where does that highway move to?
And you may ask yourself, am I right? Am I wrong?
And you may say to yourself, MY GOD! WHAT HAVE I DONE?
Letting the days go by, let the water hold me down
Letting the days go by, water flowing underground
Into the blue again, after the money's gone
Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground.
Into the blue again, after the money's gone
Once in a lifetime, water flowing underground.
Same as it ever was...Same as it ever was...Same as it ever was...
Same as it ever was...Same as it ever was...Same as it ever was...
Same as it ever was...Same as it ever was...
Time isn't holding us, time isn't after us
Time isn't holding us, time doesn't hold you back
Time isn't holding us, time isn't after us
Time isn't holding us, my God! Good God!
Letting the days go by…Letting the days go by…
Letting the days go by…
Once in a lifetime (Y’see, what kind of good boy?)
Letting the days go by…Letting the days go by…
Letting the days go by…Once in a lifetime…
"Genius of Love"
What you gonna do when you get out of jail?
Im gonna have some fun
What do you consider fun?
Fun, natural fun

He'll take my arm
When were walkin', rolling and rocking
It's one time I'm glad I'm not a man
Feels like I'm dreaming, but I'm not sleeping
All the weekend
Boyfriend was missing
I surely miss him
The way he'd hold me in his warm arms
We went insane when we took cocaine.
Stepping in a rhythm to a Kurtis Blow
Who needs to think when your feet just go
With a hiditihi and a hipitiho
James Brown, James Brown
James Brown, James Brown
If you see him
Please remind him, unhappy boyfriend
Well hes the genius of love
He's got a greater depth of feeling
Well he's the genius of love
He's so deep.
"Girlfriend is Better"
I . . . Who took the money? Who took the money away?
And I-I-I-I, it's always Showtime here at the edge of the stage
& I, I, I, wake up and wonder, what was the place, what was the name?
We wanna wait, but here we go again...
I . . . takes over slowly, but doesn't last very long
And I-I-I-I, no need to worry, evr'ything's under control
O.U.T. But no hard feelings, what do you know? Take you away
We're being taken for a ride again
I got a girlfriend that's better than that, she has the smoke in her eyes
She's movin’ up, goin’ rite thru my house, she's gonna give me surprise
Better than this, know that it's right, I think you can if you like
I got a girlfriend w/ bows in her hair & nothin’ is better than that, is it?
Down, down in the basement, we hear the sound of machines
And I-I-I-I'm driving in circles, come to my senses sometimes
Why, why, why, why start it over? Nothing was lost, everything’s free
I don't care how impossible it seems
Somebody calls you but you cannot hear, get closer to be far away
Only one look and that's all that it takes, maybe that's all that we need
All that it takes, all that it takes, all that it takes, all that it takes
I got a girlfriend that's better than that
She goes wherever she likes (there she goes...)
I got a girlfriend that's better than that
Now everybody's getting involved
As we get older and stop making sense, U won't find her waiting long
Stop making sense, stop making sense
Stop making sense, making sense, uh uh uh uh uh
I got a girlfriend that's better than that
And nothing is better that this (oh, is it?)
"Take Me to the River"
(Take me to the river, drop me in the water)
(Take me to the river, drop me in the water, water)
I don’t know why I love her like I do
All the troubles you put me through
Take my money, my cigarettes; I haven’t seen the worst of it yet
I wanna know that you’ll tell me, I love to stay
(Take me to the river, drop me in the water)
(Take me to the river, drop me in the water, water)
I don’t know why you treat me so bad (ooh ooh ooh)
Think of all the things we could have had (ooh ooh ooh)
Love is an ocean that I can’t forget (ooh ooh ooh)
My sweet sixteen I would never regret
I wanna know (woo) that you’ll tell me, I love to stay
Oh oh oh, take me to the river (Take me to the river)
Drop me in the water (Drop me in the water)
Take me in the river (Take me to the river)
Drop me in the water (Drop me in the water, water)
Hug me, squeeze me, love me, tease me
Till I can’t, till I can’t, I can’t take no more of it
Oh oh oh, take me to the river (Take me to the river)
Drop me in the water (Drop me in the water)
Take me in the river (Take me to the river)
Drop me in the water (Drop me in the water, water)
Good job, Jerry! Good job, Jerry!
Mr. Jones! 12:30! Are you ready to rock! C’mon! Let’s go!
I don’t know why I love you like I do (ooh ooh ooh)
All the changes that you put me through (ooh ooh ooh)
Sixteen candles there on my wall (ooh ooh ooh)
And here am I the biggest fool of them all
I wanna know (oh) that you’ll tell me, I love to stay
I wanna take me to the river (Take me to the river)
Drop me in the water (Drop me in the water)
Dip me in the river (Take me to the river)
Drop me in the water (Drop me in the water, water) Ow!
"Crosseyed and Painless"
Lost my shape Tryin' to act casual!
Can't stop I might end up in the hospital
Changin' my shape I feel like an accident
They're back! To explain their experience
Isn't it weird Looks too obscure to me
Wasting away That was their policy

There was a line There was a formula
Sharp as a knife Facts cut a hole in us
I'm still waiting I..I..I'm still waiting
The feeling returns Whenever we close out eyes
Lifting my head looking around inside
The island of doubt It's like the taste of medicine
Working by hindsight Got the message from the oxygen
M'M'Making a list Find the cost of opportunity
Doing it right Facts are useful in emergencies
The feeling returns Whenever we close out eyes
Lifting my head Looking around inside.
Facts are simple and facts are straight
Facts are lazy and facts are late
Facts all come with points of view
Facts don't do what I want them to
Facts just twist the truth around
Facts are living turned inside out
Facts are getting the best of them
I'm still waiting I..I..I'm still waiting
