A man who plays a role
not to others, but alone,
is exposed to obvious psychological dangers.
In itself, the practice of deception
is not particularly exacting.
It's a matter of experience, professional
expertise. It's a facility most of us can acquire.
But while a confidence trickster,
a play actor or a gambler
can return from his performance
to the ranks of his admirers,
the secret agent enjoys no such relief.
For him, deception is first
a matter of self-defence.
No, I wasn't a spy and I didn't meet spies.
Of course, to a novelist,
making fact into fiction is simplicity itself.
Interviewers trying to get the truth
out of John Le Carré
need to keep all their wits about them.
He's not only the man
who turned the spy story into high art,
he WAS actually a spy.
And spies, of course,
are not meant to tell the truth.
Le Carré's classic, "Tinker, Tailor,
Soldier, Spy", however,
is a critique of a very different kind of liar...
...a double agent who betrayed us to the Russians.
In his isolated house,
Le Carré guided me through the deceptions
which have affected his life from childhood.
(LE CARRÉ) What Philby and I had in common
was immense, immeasurable,
terrifying, irrational fathers.
Men who would tell you anything,
lie about themselves,
make themselves really unreachable to children.
And Philby's father was the most dreadful fellow,
a kind of conman who worked the Middle East,
became a Rolls-Royce representative,
wormed his way into Saudi Arabian court circles
and converted to Islam for convenience.
I always felt with Philby
that he took the path I might have taken
if I'd been a different animal.
I learned first to be a chameleon.
The technique is based on the theory that the
interviewer, loving no one as well as himself,
will be attracted by his own image.
You therefore assume the exact social,
temperamental, political and intellectual colour
of your inquisitor.
Sometimes this method founders against
the idiocy or ill-disposition of the inquisitor.
If so, become an armadillo.
Place the interviewer in a position so
incongruous that you are superior to him.
Turn him into an ape,
send him naked to Masonic banquets,
condemn him, like the serpent,
to go about on his belly.
When I was five,
my mother simply packed up and disappeared.
And I have no memory
of mourning my mother at all.
And so my dad was the only parent I knew.
He was a man of no political education,
no education at all, tremendous fluency,
a wonderful kind of sponge for picking up
attitudes and manners and voices and things.
And he stood as a Liberal candidate
for a Great Yarmouth constituency.
We can't put our ideals in the collection box.
We can't pay for our son's education with ideals.
He was proposing himself to the people of this
constituency as a Baptist, which he wasn't,
as a teetotaller, which, my God, he wasn't!
And as a man of the people,
which he certainly was.
And we would stop between meetings, and he had
a Bentley and Mr Nutbeam was the chauffeur.
Mr Nutbeam would open the boot of the Bentley
which had a dovecote with splits of champagne!
And... And he would whack one home
and then into the next school room
in some benighted broad or other.
He had one speech, which went, "So, people
of Yarmouth, I want you to remember this.
"People come up to me in the road and say to me,
'Ronnie, you're a man of ideals.
"'What place have ideals in politics? '
I say to them - very Churchillian -
"And I say to them, 'Ideals are like the stars.
"'We cannot reach them but we profit by their
presence. ' Thank you, people of Yarmouth. "
And every damn speech
ended with this piece of nonsense.
Then we got to Acle Broad,
out on the Norfolk Broads.
He'd delivered his speech
and a woman got up at the back
and said, "Is it true
the candidate's been in prison?"
And there was a silence. And Ronnie, my father,
moved to the front of the little podium.
And said, "I see here people of a certain age.
Mothers and fathers and grandparents.
"And I want to ask them this question. "
If one of these children,
like this son of mine sitting here behind me,
poised to collect some of the highest prizes
the law of this country can offer,
if one of these children
should ever make a mistake
and pay the price society exacts...
...and come home and say, "Mum, it's me...
"... Dad, it's me. "
Which one of you sitting here tonight
would slam the door in his face?
In the car, as we whizzed off to the next meeting,
I said, "What's that about?"
He said, "Many years ago I was an office boy
who took a few bob out of the stamp money box
"and was caught
before I had a chance to put it back. "
Well, I learned later that he was sentenced,
I think, to four years in prison.
As I became more grown-up,
he used me to deliver messages
of the most frightful kind, like, er,
"My father rang. He's sorry to say
the cheque's in the post",
or, "He can't make it home this evening. "
And then, before the big crash, we were
hiding the cars in the back garden and so on
so that they couldn't be repossessed
or also so that people didn't know he was there.
He was tremendously warm, sentimental.
He got you in a great big bear hug
and would, "Dah, come on!
Don't look like that, don't be like that. "
Come on, dry those old peepers of yours.
Give your old dad a hug.
There was absolutely no way
you could relate face to face, truth for truth.
Never lie, son. No Pym was ever a liar.
See how I told them the truth tonight?
God heard me. Always does.
Really the only retaliation was...
was, er... the secret path.
I think I learned to give myself
very rarely to people
and enormously treasured,
as I still do, my secrecy.
I invested institutions
with those qualities I hoped to find in parents.
But I received a savagely orthodox
and brutal early education
from the private
and public school systems of those days
and then went to the holiday schools between.
So I invested institutions
with very cruel and unpredictable powers.
His relations with his housemaster
were not good.
He was in Westcott House.
The housemaster was a man called Stanley
Thompson, a rigid, rather narrow man.
Kind, but, er...
...morally very different
from the Cornwell background.
Thompson had really a very poor view
of Mr Cornwell Senior...
. understandably!
So really, Sherborne was
very much a mixed blessing.
(ORGAN PLAYS)
The actual gulf between Sherborne,
with its very high church orthodoxy as it then was,
and the chaos of domestic life
and the terribly funny rackety scenes we lived,
that gulf became unbridgeable and absurd.
And I found myself tending to both extremes.
So I stayed with the Anglican Franciscans
in Cerne Abbas for one bit of the holiday
because I really wanted
to immerse myself in the meanings of Christianity
and I wanted to commit to the extremes
of the teachings of the school I was in.
On the other hand, I then suffered a complete
revulsion from the Christianity and the orthodoxy
and I began to think
that I was the plaything of ridiculous forces.
On one hand, racketing criminality;
on the other, toffee-nosed high school stuff.
Er, and I fled it, really.
The room has changed, as rooms do.
I don't remember any books around here.
What I remember is a great long table
and the professor sitting up at the end.
And I suppose about 20 students or so
ranged either side.
You have to understand
that in the German as well as the Swiss ethic
the professor has a tremendous authority,
far greater than one could imagine
in any English-teaching institution these days.
And he sat here looking
tremendously venerable in his silver hair.
And I was really an escapee from England,
and I was a sixteen-and-a-half-year-old kid.
It went over my head, the complete discussion.
He kept talking about
"Die fliegenden Blätter der Art und Kunst".
These were the terms of reference
of the Goethian period
and I couldn't understand how you'd translate
"flying leaves of art and culture".
And he must, after a while,
have identified me as some kind of stowaway...
because he asked me
to stay behind at the end of the seminar.
So I remained behind
and I looked half the age of anybody else there.
If the discussions were in English I wouldn't
have understood, but they were in German
and about people I'd never heard of
and I had my thumb in my mouth, practically,
and he said, "What are you doing here?"
And I said, "Well, I'm a refugee from England. "
And he said, "Well, then you'd better stay!"
Charlemagne said, "To possess
another language is to possess another soul,"
and I wanted that other soul.
My English one had been sufficiently battered
and I'd prefer to change it for a different one.
And it was here, really, that in a curious way
I said goodbye, I think for ever,
to my sense of integration in English life.
I've returned and I've remained devoted
to my own country in lots of ways,
but I've always retained that distance from it.
(BELL TOLLS)
I was completely lonely.
Although I'd cut off from England,
I terribly missed the company of English people.
I missed above all my schoolfriends.
So I attached myself to the English community
by going to the English church by the embassy.
And... I was picked up...
Well, I was taken into people's homes and...
One diplomat, who I expect
was attached to the intelligence section,
asked me to do jobs so trivial and miniscule
that they're really of no account whatever.
But I trollied off, thinking I was the greatest spy
in the world and hung around in Geneva
and gave a gentleman a parcel, and er,
looked for somebody carrying
last week's "Time" magazine, or whatever.
I thought I was absolutely
the male version of Mata Hari.
The clandestine nature of it became me.
It absolutely fitted with my nature at that time.
If we get interrupted by some chance encounter,
a friend of yours, friend of mine -
but not in the family, I'm sure you understand -
you and I are embroiled in the affairs of the
British Embassy's Anglo-Swiss Christian Society.
I'm the new secretary,
you're my missioner at the university.
Just in case.
He was a child agent, graded "semi-conscious",
our way of saying he sort of knows
what he is sort of doing and sort of why.
He was 17 years old. If he needed you urgently
he must ring Felicity and say Uncle was in town.
If you needed him you'd phone the Ollingers
and say you were Mac passing through.
"Float, Magnus, "you said. "Get in there and be
your own charming self, Magnus, "you said.
"Keep your ears and eyes open, see what sticks,
"but for God's sake
don't get into trouble with the Swissies. "
I'd done a run to Geneva, or wherever...
...and I came back to the Lingarstraße,
where I lived in a tiny attic, all alone obviously.
And my landlady said,
"The Fremdenpolizei want to talk to you. "
That's the Special Branch, who look after
undesirable foreigners in this country.
So I was absolutely terrified. I thought,
"My God, this is it. I'm going to be shot at dawn!"
Also, my beloved English Raleigh bicycle
that I'd brought from England had disappeared.
So I went down to the police headquarters
to what seemed to be a formless but formidable,
deeply threatening interrogation.
Where had I come from?
Had I got a student's card? Yes, I had.
And finally he said, "And do you know about
the law relating to bicycles in Switzerland?"
And I said, "No. "
He said, "They should all be registered.
"You were informed against because your bicycle
does not carry an official licence. So get one. "
(VIVIAN GREENE) Father decided
David must go to Oxford.
So, in a Cornwell sort of way, one of his pals
was a man called Sir James Barnes...
...who was a civil servant
and interested, as Father Cornwell was,
in the Arsenal Football Club.
He said to Sir James Barnes,
"I want to get my son into Oxford. "
Sir James Barnes said, "I know another civil
servant, Follett Sandford" - later Registrar here.
He was approached and he said,
"Try Keith Murray, the Rector of Lincoln. "
And that's in the first instance...
And Keith, knowing that I had been at Sherborne,
and had only recently come here,
said, "What do you know of David Cornwell?"
I said, "I think he's a very nice, intelligent chap. "
So we brought him up,
interviewed him in the next room.
Er, he did some sort of exam,
passed with colours,
and in spite of a somewhat grumpy letter
from his housemaster at Sherborne,
he was admitted.
Well, he was sort of difficult, he was very English
and a bit military and very, very withheld.
He kept a very low profile.
He didn't, in fact,
engage very much in conversation.
I think the fact that he contributed
to the magazine "Oxford Left", as an illustrator,
meant that he could hide,
he didn't have to discourse.
All he had to do was draw, and therefore
he didn't have to engage in conversation.
I did notice him "hanging around",
one has to say, a number of meetings
and loosely, rather mysteriously associated
with the left in Oxford.
- One bloke says you were a spy at Oxford.
- Yes, er...
Is that true?
Yeah, that's true.
Er... It's true in the sense that, er...
...there was a conviction then...
...that the Russians, the Soviets,
and their allies would be recruiting...
...from the ranks of Oxford, middle-class
Oxford undergraduates, in the late forties
in the same way that they had done
in the thirties at Cambridge. That was the terror.
(WOMAN) Father went bankrupt
and there was no money to pay David's fees
and I think he just got desperate.
He had no money, he had debts, er...
He... asked me... He said, "Let's get married. "
We were to marry the following year
and I'd continue working.
By that time I'd been told
that he was going to work for Ml5.
- Told? Somebody came to the house?
- Somebody came and we had dinner.
He told me and said how did I feel about it.
They'd obviously checked me out and I was OK.
They didn't do any further vetting.
But they warned me about how he'd be
called off on jobs that I wouldn't know about.
Did you gradually form an ideological notion
of what being a spy might be?
- Well...
- And then, sort of, join up?
Were you just recruited by the army,
doing your national service?
Er, I was recruited, er, both by the army
and by the civilian branches of intelligence
at different times.
I think, when the option was presented to me,
it was immensely attractive,
as if the rest of my life
had prepared me for this moment.
It was entering the priesthood and it was the call.
I really believed at last
that I had found a cause I could serve,
that I had, by instinct,
the methodology to serve it well.
And I also longed for the dignity
which great secrecy confers upon you.
(ANN) I think he was running various informers.
I'd say trades unionists but I don't know
if it was only that, but those I knew about...
were very often long-term communists
who, after '56, got fed up with the whole thing
and got worried about the way things were going.
That is my assumption. I'm not sure.
But I know... There was one rather sweet man
you felt terribly sorry for.
It felt like betrayal, er...
but it had a voluptuous quality
as it did for my character.
Voluptuous quality in the sense that
this was a necessary sacrifice of morality.
And that is a very important component
of what makes people spy,
what attracts them.
There is something delicious
about being told, "Now,
we're going to have to burgle that house tonight.
"And, so, we must do this and do this
and we must get the drawings and plans...
"And we'll have a policeman outside while
the owners are away, in case they come back,
"and the policeman will say, 'Sorry, you can't
come in, we've had a burglary reported here'."
And these larcenous instincts
which are put to the service of the Crown
do give a kind of bias, without doubt.
That's the delight of the game.
He was obviously brilliant there from the start
and I think Five thought they'd got
quite a catch with him.
That's my impression now.
Maybe I didn't think it at the time.
Until that time, we thought he could make
a bit of extra money for us by his painting.
Then he had this long train journey going up
and down to London every day from Missenden.
And so he started to write.
Smiley, you interviewed Samuel Arthur Fennen
at the Foreign Office on Monday. Am I right?
- (SMILEY) Yes. Yes, I did.
- What was the case?
Anonymous letter
alleging party membership at Oxford.
Routine interview
authorised by the Director of Security.
"Fennen can't have complained," thought Smiley,
"He knew I'd clear him.
"There was nothing irregular, nothing. "
Did you go for him at all?
Was it hostile, Smiley? Tell me that.
I loaded upon Smiley's shoulders
the responsibility
of having gone to interrogate a man, you,
and I say to you, according to our records,
you joined the Communist Party at university.
And you say, yes, but that lasted six months
and I realised it was bunkum
and anyway I fell in love with a girl and gave it up.
And I say, fine, it's good you got it off your chest.
And I go back to London and you shoot yourself.
I'm called to account in the middle of the night.
"Did you bully Nigel? What did you do to him?
"Christ, can you imagine what this will do for us?
We hold you personally responsible for this. "
So Smiley began
in a situation where he almost felt set up.
Everyone was accusing him of causing a scandal.
He says you cast doubts on his loyalty,
that his career in the FO is ruined,
that he is the victim of paid informers.
(SMILEY) He said what?
He must have gone stark mad!
He knows he's cleared. What else does he want?
(MARSTON) Nothing, he's dead.
Killed himself at 10.30 this evening.
Left a letter to the Foreign Secretary.
The police rang one of his assistants
and got permission to open the letter.
Then they told us. There will be an enquiry.
Smiley, you're sure, aren't you?
(ANN) Our second son
had just been born at home.
He came back that morning
and told me that he'd moved from Five to Six,
which he'd done, sort of, out of the blue,
and told me we'd go abroad,
which would be fun.
Six had a certain glamour because it was
attached to the Foreign Office so you travelled.
- He was in deep cover there.
- When you say "deep cover", you mean?
Well, some officers are declared
to the country if it's a friendly country.
Some aren't.
(NEWSREEL) The central government of the
Federal Republic of Germany is situated at Bonn.
Berlin is separated from the West by the Soviet
zone, and is not in full part of the Republic.
My stamping ground was Bonn
and the larger West German political scene
as exemplified in meetings
in Hamburg or Munich or Frankfurt or wherever.
Getting to know German politicians was my stuff.
But... when the Berlin Wall went up...
I happened... I'd been in Nuremberg...
...and there'd been a great SPD German Socialist
rally addressed by Willy Brandt.
And Willy Brandt said,
"We feel in the tips of our fingers
"that there'll be a crisis in Berlin very soon. "
I went back to Bonn and thought,
"I'll do a little telegram just as a journalist would.
"I'll file this one. " I had an uneasy feeling.
When I got to the embassy, people were running
around the corridors and all the lights were on.
News was coming in of the Friedrichstraße
checkpoint going up. The fun had started.
It happened in series.
First it was barbed wire, then extended barbed
wire, then a ploughed strip that was mined.
And I was looking for the new book.
And I think for 48 hours I didn't sleep at all.
When I got back to where we lived,
I was in a state of what I think shrinks call fugue.
I was tremendously high.
In five weeks I wrote a huge, overlong version
of "The Spy Who Came In From The Cold. "
And I cut it down to about 55,000 words
and bunged it in.
I think I knew then
that I'd had one of those moments
of what I think of now in retrospect
as literary maturity, if you will.
A moment when material and subject come
together. You feel, "Yeah, this one's really right. "
I was pretty sure
that I'd said something that was important
about the idiocy of the situation, really,
and the human cost of it.
"Get back, " Leamas hissed. "Get your hand
away.
"How the hell can I see
if you wave your hand around like that?
Slamming the car into first gear,
he drove fast across the wide road.
On his left, he was amazed to see the silhouette
of the Brandenburg Gate, 300 yards away,
and the sinister grouping
of military vehicles at the foot of it.
"Where are we going?" he asked softly.
"You're nearly there. Go slowly now, left...
No, no, leftl" he cried.
Leamas jerked the wheel in the nick of time.
"Though there," came the whispered command,
"You'll see a street lamp on your right.
"When you reach the second lamp,
"switch off the engine
and coast until you see a fire hydrant. That's it. "
- Why the hell didn't you drive yourself?
- He said you should drive, it was safer.
"Look!" The man pointed
down a side street to the left.
They saw a brief stretch of wall,
grey-brown in the weary out light.
Along the top ran a triple strand of barbed wire.
- How will the girl get over the wire?
- It is already cut where you climb.
You have one minute to reach the wall. Goodbye.
I knew, just from the papers that had crossed
my desk, the imminence of world war.
And when the Berlin Wall went up,
some of us at least thought
that the end of the world was quite close.
And so I wrote a book, in great heat,
which said, "A plague on both your houses. "
I read it in German, of course,
and for a long time,
it was the only book I read.
This was in the beginning or middle of the '60s.
How did you get hold of it, because
it wasn't published, I suppose, in the DDR?
Yeah... You see...
...in my position I was responsible
for foreign intelligence work
and so I had
the West's German magazines and papers.
And I'm not sure
whether I gave an order to bring me this book
or one of my spies brought it as a present!
I was surprised how he described
the contradiction between Munt and Fidler
because I saw them as representatives
of intelligence and counter-intelligence
and the contradictions were close
to our reality at that time
and I was astonished,
and I would like to ask John Le Carré now,
because until now I haven't an answer,
er, had he at that time some information
about the situation
inside of our ministry of state security?
I think the techniques of interrogation
are not too different in the whole world.
Police methods,
the methods of the secret services...
If an interrogator in our ministry
had to interrogate an arrested man,
he had on his table the files
from the operative service
with the facts, observations, information
from other agents and so on and so on
about this man and why he was suspected.
Usually, one interrogator had some sympathy
for the interrogated person
and understood them,
understood the motives and so on.
And then another one,
his way of interrogation is very hard.
In GDR, physical methods of interrogation
were forbidden.
The psychological torture, if you want,
was the, er, the most successful
and painful method
for the arrested people.
I don't think... It actually was
an ideological stand-off in many ways.
I think the information was available to both sides,
but whatever the causes, one system
was a great deal more benign than the other.
(ANN) It took from... When did it get published?
It got published about autumn '63.
Just at the time when Kennedy
was assassinated, I remember.
It had come out around then.
And by January... '64,
people like "Life" were after him
and photographing him in Hamburg
and we were all prancing around in the garden,
being photographed peering out of bushes
and looking like spies!
It was all tremendously exciting for him
and I was there with three children, being dreary!
My demands of the service, my expectations,
were too many and too great.
Er, I wanted to enter heroic status immediately.
And when it turned out to be,
as any large outfit will...
...turned out to be
a partly incompetent bureaucracy and so on,
and the banality of much that it did,
and the ineffectiveness of much that it did,
really came home to me,
that began to coincide with
a period of parturition, separation.
Things hotted up so quickly.
So many people ringing up,
so much photography, so much lionising...
It became very difficult
for the office to handle, I think.
They were terrified his cover would be blown
any moment and the whole thing would go.
So he... So they asked him to leave very politely.
What was really working full time -
overtime, I suppose they would say -
was the literary response
to the environment I found myself in.
I mean, mine was a worm's-eye view of the whole
institution of spying and British intelligence.
I didn't really develop that view
until I left the secret world,
which happened in my early thirties,
and began to use it
as my... my metaphor for the human condition,
if you like.
It is a little difficult to know
when to trust you people, and when not.
You do live
by rather different standards, don't you?
I mean you have to, I accept that.
I'm not being judgemental, our aims are the
same after all, even if our methods are different.
I once heard somebody say
morality was method.
Do you hold with that?
I suppose you wouldn't.
You would say that morality
was vested in the aim, I expect.
Difficult to know what one's aims are,
that's the trouble.
Especially if you're British.
I'd not been in the secret world long before
George Blake was unmasked as a defector.
I'd not arrived in Bonn as a young diplomat
for more than a few months
before Kim Philby was also exposed.
So I observed the impact of this
upon the Services themselves.
It was much deeper than,
"Christ, which operations are blown?"
It was, "These were gentlemen. These were us. "
For the first time it became apparent that Etonians
were not necessarily by definition secure.
When you think of the duality of Philby's life,
as a double agent...
So there he is setting up the Albanian operation
and he's saying,
"Right, you boys, we'll take you off and train you.
"It'll be terribly dangerous but it's for
a free Albania, you know what you stand for. "
And then sneaking round the back
and saying to his people,
"They'll be landing on this and this night. "
They landed one by one
into reception parties launched by the KGB.
And those people
died horrible deaths under torture.
He was in the front line of the intelligence world.
He knew what kind of country
he was serving secretly.
He knew about the deportations
and the corruption.
He knew about the bad stuff. He knew about
the planned genocide of the Soviet middle class.
And yet he went on working against us.
Now, our shortcomings are manifest
and we are not a perfect democracy,
but, my goodness,
we do allow people to protest in public.
And Philby therefore carried to the grave, as far
as I was concerned, my unqualified contempt.
(WOLF) He is a man
whom you can give a great respect
because he did it as a man with conviction
very close to my own conviction.
And he did it not because of money
or under pressure,
or because of lovers and so on.
He was a man of great intelligence.
(NEW SPEAKER) Philby betrayed David...
Gave his name to the Russians
when he was working as an Ml6 agent in Bern,
a young man at the university.
So Philby gave his name,
among other names of course, to us.
Of course Philby was very English.
And it may sound paradoxical,
but he reminded me of David.
Dignity...
...er, dry humour...
...er, soft when necessary, hard when necessary...
...reserved.
It's a vanishing type of an Englishman,
but Philby was very much like David.
And like Sir Alec Guiness when he played Smiley.
(LE CARRÉ) It's absolutely typical of Smiley
that in a sense
he loves an England that doesn't exist.
He loves standards of human behaviour
which are unfindable.
And therefore he is
some kind of disappointed romantic
who has to accept compromise
as a kind of personal pain.
"An artist is a bloke
who can hold two fundamentally opposing views
"and still function. " Who dreamed that one up?
Scott Fitzgerald.
Well, Fitzgerald knew a thing or two.
And I'm definitely functioning.
As a good socialist I'm going where the money is.
As a good capitalist I'm sticking with the revolution
because if you can't beat it, spy on it.
Don't look like that, George!
It's the name of the game these days.
You scratch my conscience,
I'll drive your Jag, right?
No.
Did you get that from Haydon? Is that
one of Bill's jokes about materialist England?
The pigs in clover society?
- Don't you like it?
- Not much.
There ARE competitive
and acquisitive instincts in Western society,
but they're offset
against other concerns which you won't find in...
Poznan, Budapest, Kiev, Sofia...
Tell me all about it, George.
I'm just saying that's England now, man.
All you have to do is look out the bloody window.
I tried to write "Tinker, Tailor"
without Smiley, to begin with.
I had a pictorial opening, which I always have,
just as I have the final frame
of the book in my mind,
not knowing what will lie between the two!
But what I couldn't do was get into the past
without the authority of Smiley's own memory.
And once I brought him back,
I realised that, in fact,
he was a man with unfinished business.
The restless retirement.
When he sees Peter Guillam coming to him
at the beginning, he knows what he's come for.
Just as when he goes to Connie,
Connie knows what he's come about.
He loved the Service, the spirit of the Service.
The sense of self-sacrifice,
dedication and comradeship
which, without doubt, that world imparts.
Smiley was my secret sharer through a lot of
early books when I was very scared of emotion.
Emotion was filtered through Smiley.
For as long as he was there, he stood
between you and the feelings you might have.
He was a comforter.
Vivian Greene was
the strong moral intellect in my life.
And you might say the good side,
the strong conscience of Smiley is from Vivian.
David himself, as it were, revealed this
in a newspaper article in 1980, was it?
He used the words, "My mentor
at Sherborne who later moved to Oxford. "
I said, "What do you mean by this?"
He said, "I've always been secretly amused
"that you never saw
that you had some of Smiley's qualities!
"An understanding of human nature,
"a sympathy for human frailty...
"... and a capacity for listening. "
(LE CARRÉ) But really, the rumpledness,
the sense of not belonging,
the sense of being a misfit,
of being personally ugly,
these derive so much
from the humiliations of childhood.
Even at prep school, my dad didn't pay the fees.
You began to feel that
in the way you were segregated and spoken to.
"Have you heard from your father?
Do you know where he is?"
And when Lord Iliffe wanted beaters to come
and raise the pheasants for him to shoot,
I was one of the boys who was never chosen
because it wasn't "right", I wasn't a gentleman.
I took all those things very personally
because I expected so much of the institution.
I wanted it to replace parenthood,
I wanted it to embrace me.
And the rejection that I suffered
somehow went into the misfit that is Smiley.
Er, the outsider that is Smiley.
Er, the very...
The skilful observer that is Smiley.
And any child who actually believes
that home is a terribly dangerous place
becomes, in self-defence,
a very acute watcher and listener.
(WOLF) George Smiley is a real hero
and a man of great intelligence...
...who did his work with full conviction.
I think, of course,
it's the result of Carré's inside knowledge,
this, er, partly real methods of interrogation,
of intelligence work.
And so I can recognise them.
Markus Wolf says
you portray the GDR as the evil empire.
Does that square with your creation of Karla,
Smiley's opposite number in Moscow Centre?
Karla is drawn, really,
from those '30s Comintern figures
where the spirit of self-sacrifice
on behalf of the Revolution is absolute.
Vikartin, who was head of the KGB,
said to me, "What you must understand
is that this was the popular revolution.
"This would free the world. And we accepted
as the bitter pill we had to swallow
"the mistakes,
the acts of inhumanity along the way. "
And I think it was that kind
of actually very admirable commitment
to the Communist cause
that I wanted to dignify in Karla.
What Smiley knows is that
in luring Karla away to the West,
he, Smiley, has deployed the methods of the East.
And what Karla knows is that
in giving way to his human compassion...
...he has broken with his own ethic.
George, in all your life, fantastic!
Take care, George.
Go well, hear me.
So both of them feel, in a sense,
that they've betrayed the code they lived by.
Smiley feels unclean
at having blackmailed Karla...
...having discovered he had a mentally defective
daughter whom he accommodates in Switzerland.
Come on, old friend, it's bedtime.
George...
...you won.
Did I?
Yes...
Yes, I suppose I did.
# It's springtime in Berlin... #
I waited, at the end of the Cold War,
for something to tell us
the world can now be reshaped.
That endless stand-off, as it seemed to us,
between the two great economic monoliths
of the West and the Communist world was over.
The excuses for exploiting the Third World,
for imposing dreadful dictatorships on them
provided they were anti-communist,
all those excuses had gone.
Now something decent could be put together.
A real act of global perestroika could occur.
Nothing happened. We went into a collective
Western atrophy of isolation and self-indulgence.
Our response
was to make ourselves fatter and richer
and not to take on the world at large.
Er, and so I felt that a great moment in history
had simply gone by default.
(LYUBIMOV)
Still we're involved in the ethnic wars.
See Yugoslavia,
you see Chechnya here in Russia.
And what change?
Of course Russia is now democratic
and a member of some European society,
but still espionage is on.
Military competition is on.
The CIA has more money than it had before.
What... Who are they spying on, by the way?
On Poland?
(PEARSON) I take it that in the end
being a spy is such a rotten thing to be
that you find ways of feeling good about it
and some of those ways may be genuine.
I think he must have felt in the past,
at least with part of him,
that he was defending an order
which was defensible.
The interesting change is manifested,
I think, in his new novel,
because here he has as his central figure Justin,
who does belong to an older order,
the old imperialist order,
whose values I imagine
David might once have upheld,
and thought that he was defending
in the best way he could,
who moves quite radically in the course
of the novel to a much more open position.
In fact, I would say a radical position.
(LE CARRÉ) We meet him
as a kind of unawakened conformist
who's contracted a rather romantic marriage
with a very young girl
who is outspoken, a young lawyer, Oxbridge, rich,
er, and she's very zealous and idealistic.
When they get to Africa, she peels off
and gets into aid work, where she's very happy.
She gets pregnant, loses her baby, and that
intensifies her sense of human responsibility.
And she throws herself into the aid work
and comes upon very alarming secrets
about the pharmaceutical world.
Then we have Justin,
after her death, picking up the trail
and putting on her mantle.
And it becomes a novel of education,
as the Germans would say, a "Bildungsroman"...
...where he learns humanity on the hoof.
An active, contributing humanity,
constructive humanity,
and an intense sense of responsibility
towards the wretched of the earth,
who were Tessa's concern.
Drugs have got to be tried on somebody. Who
do you choose? Harvard Business School?
Foreign Office isn't about passing judgement
on the safety of non-indiigenous drugs, is it?
It should grease the wheels of British industry,
not go round telling everybody that a British
company in Africa is poisoning its customers.
You said something interesting at the start
of our interviews, that you'd forgotten how to lie.
Yes, that's how I feel now. I have, I simply have.
I mean, I grew up with two big lies.
Er, three, really.
Er, the one that I've always denied to myself,
which was the disappearance of my mother
and the lies that were told to us about her.
Then, the tiny time I spent in the secret world.
For years after writing "The Spy Who Came In"
and leaving the Service, I went on denying it.
Then the final big lie was while
my father was alive, I just couldn't talk about him.
My sister Charlotte rang from London
to say that he'd dropped dead.
It was a Sunday evening
and he'd just had a massive heart attack.
And...
I... I simply noted it.
I had no feeling of anything at all.
It was as if that part of me had been removed.
And I guess from then on,
it's been appraisal rather than mourning.
And fits of tremendous admiration
for the juggling act, however many times it failed.
I mean, I've stood alone on a New York street...
...trying to imagine what's it like to be in this city
on the run without a penny in your pocket.
And all you've got to do is make sure
you've got a clean shirt and a pressed suit.
That was all the equipment he had.
And somehow or another, he survived.
They did this to me, but I've remained who I am.
I'm tempered, I'm able.
Inside myself there's an untouched man.
If they came back now and did everything to me
again, they'd never reach the untouched man.
I passed the exam I've been shirking all my life.
I'm a graduate of pain.
